01 What Brand Is.

So, the first section is branding. And I think that we should start off with some definitions here so that we are on the same page and everything that we discuss moving forward is from the same understanding. I define branding as a pairing of things. I define good branding as an intentional pairing of relevant things done consistently and what you get from that is the byproduct which is brand. Brand is when the audience inherently associates those things together.

Let's use the most classic example known to man. Nike and Michael Jordan. Nike entered the basketball market and they wanted to have their audience or customers associate them with athletic greatness. specifically within the basketball industry. So, what did they do?

They intentionally paired themselves with greatness in basketball. Michael Jordan. I I can't think of another name that's more synonymous with victory, with winning, with greatness. Or take Gary Vaynerchuk in content. The man literally wrote a book called Crush It.

I don't even remember when it came out. I think 2009. And he was talking about how people are going to make money talking about the Smurfs on YouTube. The man is synonymous with content and over time his actions done repetitively have led us to draw that association. He has intentionally paired himself with content among many other things.

Or my absolute favorite that I always have to inject at any chance I get, Harley-Davidson. Harley-Davidson for many years in their marketing has intentionally paired themselves with freedom. And so what is the association that the customer base draws upon when they think of Harley-Davidson? Freedom. The open road, tearing off their suit and going out and hitting the road.

And so ultimately what we are trying to do is think of what are the associations that we want our audience to inherently draw when they think of our name. And the beauty of this is it actually makes it operational for you. All you have to do is deliberately and intentionally pair yourself with the association that you want your audience to make. It takes all of the woo woo fluffy magic out of what brand is and it makes it something that you can actually do. Now, real quick, my team and I put a lot of effort into building out this course and a lot of accompanying worksheets and playbooks.

So, please take advantage of them. What you're going to notice is at the bottom of the screen here, we're going to have little icons that tell you what sheet and how you can download it. I would highly encourage you, please download these sheets and follow along. Now that we know what brand and branding are, we need to define what your brand is. Now, your brand actually exists whether you define it or not.