02 Define Your Brand.

Your audience might be defining it for you. I would rather we be intentional and take control. The first step in defining your brand is defining your desired outcome. I like to work from the end goal and reverse engineer our way backwards. And so here is how I actually reverse engineer our desired outcome to today.

It is called the brand journey framework. And it's just four simple questions, but I can't tell you how many people have told me how impactful this was and gave them the exact road map of how to go about building their brand. So question number one, again, like I said, we're starting from the end in mind and working our way back. So what is our desired outcome? What do we want to have happen?

Question number two is, what do I have to be known for in order for that to happen? Question number three is, what do I have to do in order to be known for that? Unfortunately, building a brand isn't just about things that we say, it's about our actions. And so if we want to be known for something, in order to be known for it, we got to do the to be known for it. And then finally, the last question takes us to right now.

What do I have to learn in order to do that? So if I'm going to do things in order to be known for something to then get my desired outcome, well, right now, I might not know how to do those things. And so this gives you day one exactly what to do. You need to learn these specific items and then you need to do those things and then you will become known for those things and then eventually the desired outcome occurs. If you have clarity on your outcome, this ensures that every decision you make along the way lines up with what you want to have happen.

The majority of people that are building their brand online that are posting content, I promise you 99.9% of them have no idea what they're trying to accomplish with their content, with their brand. And so what they're doing is they're wandering aimlessly. There's an amazing example that I I love to share from Alice in Wonderland. There's a moment where Alice comes to a fork in the road. There's two different directions she can go.

And the cat, Chester the cat, I believe is his name. And he's sitting in the tree and she says, "Which way should I go?" And he goes, "Well, where are you trying to end up?" And she says, "I don't know." And the cat responds with something so powerful. He says, "Well, then either way, we'll take you there. If you do not have a desired outcome that you are making your decisions off of, you're going to go somewhere, but it might not be the place that you want to be. Now, after you define your desired outcome, I would argue probably the most important part of defining your brand is defining your associations or the associations that you desire to have.

Ask yourself, what do I want to be associated with? What do I want the audience to think of when they hear my name? Here's an example. Do you want your name to be tied to business, trustworthiness, or mental well-being? Everything you create should reinforce those associations.

This is where intentionality in branding starts. Everything you create should reinforce those associations. This right here is where intentionality in branding starts. So, a very meta example here is that I am creating this course and the content that we're going to be putting out to intentionally pair Rston, my consulting firm, with value, with scaling brands, with understanding attention, with building brands that not only scale, but last and build trustworthiness within their community. This is literally what I'm doing.

I'm putting together a massive course right now that is going to outline all of this and consistently pair myself with those attributes that I want you to draw upon when you hear about Rston Consulting. So, we're going to continue to create content like this talking about scaling your brand. We are intentionally pairing ourselves with the relevant thing scaling brands and we're going to do that consistently through our content. Now, we just went over what you want to be associated with. I would argue this next part is far more important and something that 99.9% of people completely ignore, which is what do you not want to be associated with?

A lot of people make the mistake of assuming that brand is only about what you want to have happen. But a lot of what building a brand and a successful brand is, especially in today's saturated market where there's so many people online talking about the same subject matter as you, you can stand out by what you choose not to associate with. This is ultimately how you protect your brand. This is how you keep it from deliluding and being misinterpreted. Think of how many people you see online whose reputation probably has nothing to do with what they wanted or what their desire was.

often times that is a byproduct of not being intentional with what they are not going to associate with. If you don't actively shape your associations, your audience is going to do it for you. Now, this next little example and explanation here is going to get a little technical. So, I'm actually going to read off of the screen to the right of the camera right now um so that I don't mess this up because I think it's really important and I want to make sure that we go through this exactly how I meant to.

If we believe that branding is a pairing of things and that good branding is an intentional pairing of relevant things done consistently and that that then creates brand which is when the audience inherently associates those things together then we're on the same page of what brand and branding is. But what you'll notice is intentional is not a good or bad statement. Intentional doesn't mean right or good. Meaning, you could be intentional with pairing your brand, but with the wrong things done consistently.

Unfortunately, what this ends up leading to is the audience drawing the association between your brand and those wrong things. Here's an example that I have to give a qualifier for. I have some pretty strong views and opinions on some of the online creators in the business education space. All love and respect to everyone. Everyone can do their own thing.

This is Caleb Rston's individual opinion. Strongly believed, loosely held. There are some very scammy, sketchy in the online education space. They are untrustworthy and they make content trying to ladder up to selling some course online. If you choose to consistently appear in content with them, whether it's them inviting you on their podcast or you guys doing a collab video together, if you do that consistently, aka you intentionally pair yourself with the scam artist online, the untrustworthy character, the snake oil salesman, guess what happens if you do that consistently?

Your audience will start to inherently associate you with that crowd. Is that good for trust? No, not at all. In fact, this is some of the biggest problems that you see with a lot of creators in the business education space right now. There are a lot of individuals that actually have a lot of value and a lot of good to add into the world and education and able to literally show people a whole new way to approach their business, their career.

But the problem is is they go on all these podcasts with these individuals that I cannot trust. And by doing that enough times, I no longer feel that I can trust that individual. So, as much as you want to pair yourself with the right things, please, please be diligent about what you choose not to associate with. If you get a bad feeling in your gut, if you don't think that it's the right move, it's not worth the exposure. I'm going to open up the kimono here for a second.

I have people right now, not a lot because I'm not that interesting, but I have a couple of people that have been asking me to come on to their podcast. And so far, I've said yes to everyone, but there are some individuals out there that I know will probably eventually reach out and ask me to come on the show. Now, if they have that kind of a brand, I will choose to not go on the show, even if it's the biggest audience that I could get in front of because ultimately awareness is not worth the trade.

What are those people going to be aware of? They're going to be aware of you in light of that association. All right, we've defined our brand. So now we need to position it. Now your goal isn't to just blend in.

You actually want to find what is missing in your industry and own that gap. So it might be the information that you have. It might be the philosophy you have around a certain subject matter like branding for example. Or it might be your personality and your unique take on the same information. You might just be able to reach a whole different audience that wasn't able to connect with some of the other creators in that space.