03 Position Your Brand.

Ultimately, what you are looking for is the gap of what is missing and then you fill it. Now, how do you go about finding out what is missing or how do you own that gap? Well, ask yourself these two questions. What are the people that are currently creating content in the space that I'm wanting to occupy? What are they saying that I disagree with?

How can I take what has been taught for years or shared for years and bring a fresh perspective to the table? Here's a really good example. If everyone in your industry is focusing on going viral and getting lots of views and and always doing that, maybe leaning into building a long-term trustbuilt brand will stand out. That's what I'm trying to do here, right? A lot of my counterparts who I love and respect, they emphasize virality and getting views and there's a lot of benefit to that.

But where I'm coming in and kind of filling the gap is there's not a lot of people online talking, especially in the form of free content like this in a way that shares with you how to build a brand that lasts. If you just emphasize views, for example, the moment the algorithm changes, nobody's going and searching for your name. On the flip side, if you build a brand that has trustworthiness and deposits a lot of goodwill into the marketplace, the moment the algorithm changes, your audience will be searching for you.

And so that is a prime example of me contrasting myself with the others in the industry. That's me noticing a gap where nobody's talking about this or very few, and me wanting to fill it, not only with my unique perspectives and philosophies, my experience doing this for 16 years, but also maybe a unique and quirky personality that some people will really hate and then a tiny few of you might actually resonate with. Now, the other way to bring a fresh perspective is to share your story. So, what I would encourage you to look at is what is different about your story than everybody else's.

Now the the obvious answer is everybody's story is different, right? But what is it that makes you uniquely you? That you can present all of your information, your beliefs through that lens. Ultimately, your story is your brand's secret weapon. This is what makes you unique and makes you stand out from everybody else in the crowd.

Nobody else has the same come-up story or origin story that you do. An exercise to help you do this is actually to list out pivotal moments in your story, in your life, challenges you've overcome, turning points in your career, that moment where you got laid off at your job, and then all of a sudden ended up finding the next gig, and it's the greatest thing ever. And any unique experiences that have shaped your perspective. For me, working with Gary Vaynerchuk completely changed my perspective. I I had a completely different understanding of what it meant to create content online with your audience in mind first rather than making to make you look good.

Share that in your content. And ultimately like stories resonate way more with people than you saying typical tropes and attributes like hardworking or innovative or hustling. Nobody gives a about that. They want to hear the story behind the hard work. For example, instead of me being like, I'm a hard worker, I would tell the story of when I was editing Gary Ve's trash talk series and how I would come in on Sunday, and start editing 12 to 14 hours a day, Sunday through Thursday, and then I would arrive in the office at 6:00 a.m.

on Thursday, and I would not leave the office until 2:00 p.m. on Friday. I'm not going to do the math for you right now, but I believe that's about 32 hours straight. the story and if I went more into detail would be far more compelling than me just telling you about working hard or how I work hard. Another example is instead of Jeff Bezos talking about how resourceful he is, tell the story about how he used a door as his desk.

Nothing will say resourceful more than telling that story. Share your stories. That is what your audience is going to resonate with. Now, for those of you who have made content online, the thing that you're probably very aware of is there's a lot of skepticism. There are a lot of objections that the audience has towards your content, especially if you are in the education space.

Legitimately, the majority of people watching your content are thinking the entire time, why would I trust this? Does this actually work? Okay, cool. That worked for you, but does it work for me? How would it work in this scenario?

Have you done this in multiple different industries? They are constantly thinking of their objections to what you have to say. And often times those objections and that skepticism appears in the comments. Here's what I would like you to do. Instead of allowing that to take place in your comments, start looking at your comment section, getting a greater understanding of the skepticism and objections that commonly occur within your audience and start addressing them in the content.

Just like a great VSSL overcomes objections before a prospect hops on a sales call, treat your content the same way. Why would you not try to overcome the objections that your audience is going to have? If ultimately your goal is to educate and change the actions of your audience after they consume your content, why would you make it harder for them to do that? Let's make it easier by overcoming any objection or skepticism they're going to have about what you're saying in the content itself. If you address the skepticism and the objections proactively in your content, what you do is you build more trust and credibility.

When you answer the questions before they're even asked, you remove friction, and then it makes it easier for your audience to actually change their actions and be educated. All right, the next one is don't be a robot. This is something that a lot of people making content online really struggle with, and I completely understand why. There's this weird object that you're talking into called a camera and a lens. And it's like this very freaky ordeal, right?

Even right now, I am doing my best to be a human, not a robot, right? And bring my personality into this content rather than just monotone giving the information that I want to. And part of being a human is sharing not only the wins, but also the losses. Share the failures that you've had along the way and the lessons that you learned from those failures. Think about it.

The friend that you have that's always sharing how great everything is and how they just keep winning eventually, one, they just become kind of annoying, right? But two, do you really believe that? Do you really believe that life is so perfect and that everything is going exactly their way? No. Imagine not knowing this individual.

So from afar, your audience is going to be even more skeptical of you if all you're doing is sharing all your W's. On the flip side, if you are vulnerable and you share your losses, what you will find is a lot more people will trust you and connect with you and relate with you. I actually think that losses are more relatable than wins. And we can learn a lot more from losses than maybe we can learn from wins. And ultimately, if you share your losses and the lessons learned from them, you help your audience potentially, if they choose to take action, avoid making those same mistakes.

A really good example of this is someone that I worked for uh several years ago. When I started with her, her whole audience thought that she was a robot and viewed her as not human. She just came across as like an information, you know, overload. and she was just sharing her knowledge which was a lot but it had no substance or personality to it. And so when I started working with her it was my number one goal to show her human side to take it from just information just d to like show personality right and and this individual she had an amazing personality.

She was hilarious so funny quirky everything. But you would never know that just watching the content. In fact, a lot of people would meet her in real life and be like, "You're so much nicer and funnier and than I expected you to be. I actually kind of expected you to be a jerk." But like, in no way was that the case, but you wouldn't know it from the content she was making. And so, I really encourage you to do your best to bring your true self, bring your whole self into your content.

Seriously, it will make you stand out. There's nobody else that's actually like you. An example for sharing your failures is in my first YouTube video, I share a failure. I share the story of how one of my main clients cut my monthly compensation in half and I had to go and fire my friends that I had hired. That was a real shot to my ego and isn't my favorite thing to share necessarily, but I think one there's a big lesson that I shared that is accompanied with that failure.

But also, I think that you guys watching it probably, if you did see that video, felt a little bit closer to me because I appeared more human. That transparency ultimately builds trust way faster than somebody who is just constantly posturing and trying to show you how great they are. This next one is actually uh really tough for a lot of people to do. And I completely understand why. The point is to listen to your audience.

The hard part or the difficulty in this is there's a lot of people that make content that get a decent amount of hate in their comments. They get a lot of people that are just frankly being And what I would encourage you to do is do your best to ignore those individuals. And real quick, just like an anecdote on this is if you ignore the praise, you can ignore the hate. If you get really high off of the praise when people applaud you in the comments, you're going to be very vulnerable to being very depressed when you see the hateful comments that are tearing you down.

But aside from the hateful comments, the other comments that you have in your posts are actually incredible insights into how you should go about navigating your brand and the content that you create. Especially in the early days, I would encourage you to look at the individuals that know you, your friends, co-workers, and any audience that you may already have. What are they associating you with? What do they praise you for? What do they applaud you for?

What do they admire in you and what keeps them wanting to either continue hanging out with you, talking to you, what keeps them coming back? What you want to do is use this feedback to refine your positioning and ultimately know what you can double down on. A really big example for me is, and this will sound weird coming out of my mouth, but please take this with like a humble tone that I hope I have here. Something very interesting that I've noticed is when I hop on Zoom calls with potential clients or with clients, like 90% of the calls end with one or more of the members on the other team mentioning how much they love my energy and personality.

Again, it feels really weird for me to say this, so please hear it correctly, but I started noticing that and I realized, man, to my point earlier, I should really make sure that I bring that same personality and energy into the content that I make cuz it's who I am. It's how I actually roll. Like I I'll make a statement and then I do a little side comment on. I do that with all my friends or my family all the time. I do it on client calls, on discovery calls, anything.

And so if that is something that people are resonating with and liking and giving me real time feedback on that they like that and enjoy it, why the would I not involve that in my content? And so this is using my audience and technically I wouldn't even call them my audience, but essentially they are. and using their feedback to refine how I present myself in the content, which ultimately the way I'm going to present myself is being fully me. Now, another example is if your audience really values your practical advice, your no BS, nononsense, straight to the point advice, I would really encourage you to lean into it.

If you start seeing a trend emerging where people are, you know, adding more filler fluff and, you know, comfort creators, that's great, but that's not you. Don't follow a trend just because it's a trend. Stay true to who you are and what your audience appreciates most about what you are putting out. Another example of listening to your audience and actually making a very good change is there was another client that I had worked with uh a while back and they fell into this pattern of honestly getting way too intense in their content and only talking about really one subject matter.

They didn't really diversify and they were just hammering one message over and over and over that the audience wasn't resonating with. It wasn't like, you know, you have your haters that are that are speaking out and stuff, but ultimately you're telling your truth. No, like the majority of the audience was giving a lot of push back. And so what this individual did is they listened to the audience. And by listening to the audience, they started to add more context.

They didn't change their belief. They didn't change what they were saying. They rounded out what they were saying and gave more context as to why they were pushing this message so much. So again, listen to your audience and let it shape how you present your ideas, philosophies, and beliefs. Don't have it change your beliefs.

Don't cater what you're saying just to the audience. Nobody likes that. That's what we call a politician. Nobody wants that. And now the longanticipated brand story framework.

Your brand story isn't just a before and after transformation. It's a series of intentional decisions that shape how people see you. Now, I tend to believe that most story frameworks are a little too rigid to actually be practically used, especially for many different use cases. I think that what they end up doing is they assume that every brand has some dramatic aha moment, right? Some big problem that they have to solve.

They assume that the founder story is the most important one. They assume that a brand's identity will never evolve. But great brands aren't built on a singular moment. They're built on consistency, distinction, and connecting with the right audience over time. So here's a storytelling framework that I believe works in all cases.

Forget the problem transformation outcome framework. Okay, I believe that that is too narrow. Instead, here is the threepart brand story framework. Number one is the catalyst. This is why your brand exists.

Every brand, I believe, starts because something needed to change. This isn't necessarily always a struggle. It might be an opportunity or a gap in the market.