04 Brand Story Framework.

For example, and I don't know this for sure, but I can make some pretty good assumptions here. I don't think Phil Knight started Nike just to be rich. If he did, there's plenty of other businesses he could have started that had a higher likelihood of success. I believe he saw that no other companies were fulfilling the demand and meeting the needs that the market had. In order to determine what your catalyst is, I would ask yourself these three questions.

What needs to change? What do you see that others don't? What's that opportunity that you see so clearly that nobody else can see? And why do you feel the need to act on it? If you answer these three questions, this is your catalyst for your brand.

This is why your brand exists. Number two is the core truth. This is what makes you or your company different than everybody else in your space. A strong brand stands out. It doesn't blend in.

Blending in ultimately leads to you being forgotten. A lot of people misunderstand this and there's a lot of them online right now. It doesn't mean that it's controversy for controversial sake. That's where you just get the annoyingly loud people on the internet that nobody likes. That is not what I'm saying here.

What I am saying is it means having a core conviction that is different than everyone else in the market and not only having that core conviction but sharing it publicly with the world. A great example of this is actually an artist by the name of Russ. Uh Russ has some very unique views on how musicians should go about navigating their career. He is very very strong about how artists should remain independent and own the rights to their music. He believes that this allows them to have creative control but to also profit more off of their hard work.

What does he do with that? He shares those beliefs in the form of his music. He literally talks about it in his music, but then also when he does interviews on podcasts or various news networks, he reinforces this and shares it heavily. So to determine your core truth, ask yourself these three questions. What do I believe that others do not?

What is it about my personality that stands out? And think about this. We we talked about it earlier, but what do people compliment you on that you can lean into, that you can double down on? The example I gave earlier was that people on Zoom calls, client calls and stuff like that would mention that they love my energy and my personality. So what am I doing in my content in building my brand?

Leaning into that and really trying to highlight and bring my somewhat quirky and weird personality into the content. And number three, why would the audience care about this? How does this impact them? What value does it bring for them? If you answer these three questions, you'll have your core truth.

And number three, the proof. This is how you reinforce your identity over and over and over. I believe that your brand is not what you say, it's what you do and prove over and over again. Strong brands don't just have one past success story. They have an ongoing pattern of credibility.

Another Gary example is that he doesn't just talk about volume of content and the importance of it. He's proved it for like 15 plus years. And he reinforces the credibility of this statement by talking about what he's done not only for his personal brand, but all the brands that Vayner Media works with for the Super Bowl campaigns, for example. The majority of their Super Bowl campaigns are determined off of high volume social content that they do throughout the year to test learnings, see what the audience resonates with, and that's what they run with on the Super Bowl.

And he shares those stories. So, he is reinforcing the credibility over and over and over. So, three questions to ask yourself are, how does every piece of content I make reinforce the associations I want people to make with me? What case studies or examples can I share that establish my credibility? And number three, if someone hears your name, what's the first thing that they think of?

So, here's a fun example using myself, the catalyst. I saw brands trying to scale via just views and impressions, but struggling to actually build trust with their audience. It wasn't that the problem was the content. The problem was they were lacking clarity on the big picture strategy and what they wanted to have happen with their brand. The core truth is that I believe that a strong brand is built by the intentional pairing of relevant things done consistently, not just getting virality and getting a ton of views and impressions.

And the proof is that I've built many different brands that scale businesses to millions and millions of dollars in revenue. And I show you how to do it completely for free via my content. So you can build your brand story in three very simple steps. It's not rocket science. It's not the complicated that a lot of my counterparts make it to be so that they can sell you some course.

The catalyst. What do you see that others do not? The core truth. What do you believe that others might not believe? And the proof.

How do you continually reinforce that identity every single day? Not only through what you're saying, but through your actions. If you nail these, your brand won't just have a story. Your brand will have loyalty. All right.

Now, for something that a lot of people struggle with, which is picking your topic. Like, what are we going to talk about here? And this is a question that I get from many people. I've gotten this question hundreds, if not thousands of times over the last couple of years. And there's a lot of different opinions online about what or how you go about picking your topics.

I have kind of a nuanced uh belief on this and view on it and it's one that changes and evolves over time. I encourage you to start narrow. I personally believe that early trust is built off of being great at one specific thing and talking about that same specific thing. We all have that friend who is the best at everything. And we know that they're not good at any of it.

By them talking all about how great they are at all these different subjects and all these different skills. We pretty much assume that they're not good at any of them. Contrary to that is the friend who only talks about woodworking and how they love carving this beautiful chair or putting together this amazing desk for their parents or whatever. The person who is obsessed around one thing and speaks about that at nauseium is the individual who we believe has credibility and is actually good at what they're talking about.

They have expertise. A great example of this is that when Gary started making content online forever ago, I mean, he was super early. I think 2006, 2007 on YouTube, he was the wine guy. He made content around wine. That's what he knew super well.

Now, at the time, he also understood business and marketing, but he didn't talk about that. He built his base and credibility off of a subject matter that he was worldclass at. Over time, he began to expand that, right? He began to speak to the different business practices and marketing techniques that he used to build his dad's wine and liquor store.