05 Pick Your Topic(s).

But in the beginning, all of his content for the first several years on YouTube was wine library TV where he was tasting and giving reviews on various wines. And then what you started to see is he would start to pop up at South by Southwest and start talking more about marketing. And then one day all of a sudden this amazing speech gets dropped on YouTube accompanied with a book called Crush It where he informed everyone of his beliefs on marketing and utilizing this new crazy thing called social media.

And so what you see there is Gary started very narrow and as his experience and knowledge expanded, so did the subject matter that he covered in his content. Again, if you try to talk about everything in the beginning, you will dilute the power of what you're speaking to. So what you're going to notice is I'm not going to sit here talking about business tactics. I'm not going to talk about sales techniques. You're not going to hear me referencing customer success techniques and strategies cuz that's not my wheelhouse.

That's not my expertise. My expertise is on scaling brands and using organic content strategy to accomplish that. And so that's what you're going to hear me talk about. But what may happen is over the next couple of years as I gain more experience in other areas, you might watch my brand and my subject matter and topics evolve. Now, the natural question that I imagine is coming up for you right now is, well, how do I know when it is the right time to expand?

I feel like maybe right now I'm at that point. Or on the flip side, I'm so far from ever expanding. Like, I want to only talk about this subject matter for the rest of my life. One, you should actually know what you're talking about before you talk about it. So, if you haven't actually gotten to a point of excellence and world class, then I don't know that I would talk about this new subject matter.

I don't I don't think I would bring it into the table because what value are you going to be providing the audience by sharing something that you don't really know much about? Now, another thing that you can look at is once you're known for a specific topic and you get consistent engagement and positive feedback from the audience on that, then you can consider to start to expand. I would encourage you to take on adjacent topics, not something that is completely different. For example, I'm not going to be talking about brand strategy and organic content strategy and then next week start talking about breath work.

that would be completely offthe-wall and make no sense, right? So, there would be too much of a jump for my audience to trust me on this new subject matter because there's nothing about what I've been talking about right now that would give me credibility for this new subject matter. to use Gary as the same example when he was talking about wine and building the brand and the company online. By him doing that and gaining success with the company, it gave him credibility to speak into marketing and to share those strategies because he had demonstrated them in actual use.

He put those strategies that he shared with us to practice to build his business and that gave him credibility to jump into the next section or the next topic in his career. Another one is look at your audience and what they're asking for. If you start noticing that they're asking for additional information on something that you don't really cover that much, but you've maybe hinted at or or has been displayed in a minor way in your content, well, maybe that is time for you to start speaking to that subject matter.

For example, if all of you watching this started asking me a ton about my Harley-Davidson and all the little uh intricacies of all the upgrades that I've made and the performance and the handling and how I go on long road trips, I would gladly answer those questions. Now, when thinking about expanding, uh I would encourage you to do it strategically. So, let's walk through what that looks like. A great example of a company that went about expanding their product line is Amazon. Amazon started by selling books, right?

And now they sell obviously a lot more than just books. I mean, if we look at what I'm wearing right now, about 3/4 of everything I have on was purchased off of Amazon. But ultimately, even though Amazon has expanded to all these various different products, they haven't lost their core identity with books. And I would argue them acquiring Audible was actually a big step in re-engaging that audience. They now have what I probably believe is the biggest audiobook platform out there.

And so they returned or reinforced rather than returned, they reinforced their roots by doing that. So in expanding, never lose sight of your core identity and where you started. For another example, to keep running with the Gary Vee example, that man continues to this day to bring back Wine Library TV on occasions. He still brings wine into his content here and there. He pays ode and homage to the OG Gary Vee.

Another great example, similar to Amazon and Gary of returning to your roots is Crayola. As of February 2025, when we're filming this, Crayola announced that they're bringing back eight discontinued colors that they had uh taken off the market. Some of them, you know, as most recently as 2017, some of them go back to like 1990. one, bringing it back is a nostalgic play and that's obviously going to resonate with a lot of the uh audience, a lot of the parents honestly that have kids now like we grew up I grew up with Crayola and my generation is of the age we're like we have kids now and so uh there's definitely a good play there.

But I think what this shows is a company and a brand can evolve and and add new product lines, add new things in and change over time. But I do believe there is a lot of power in always holding to your core, to your root. And that doesn't necessarily mean that every year, every day, every month, you have to do that. But it is good and I think it means a lot to the day one and OG members or audience or customers of yours for you to return to that. Uh, another example actually that that I'll generalize because a lot of creators do this is if you're a creator or a musician, the content or music you were making day one in the early days, that's what a lot of your day one fans fell in love with.

And like brands, a lot of musicians and artists and creators evolve and they evolve what they create, right? We all know, I mean, I'm really big into hardcore music as an example. And I can't tell you actually a prime example of this, just thought of right now, is Knock Loose. In the hardcore space, Knocked Loose started as a hardcore band. They had that like grungy local basement sound, but Knock Loose has blown the up.

And as they continue to get bigger, they have haters that call them sellouts and all this stuff. Well, the cool thing that Knock Loose does at their shows is they still play their original tracks. They still play the gospel and that slaps every single time. And it allows for us Day One fans to have that nostalgic feeling and make sure that we still feel attached to not only what the band has evolved into, but where the band came from. So, a takeaway here for those of you that have a more established brand is maybe consider bringing back like a nostalgic play, like return to your roots a little bit.

If you had a different content format style that you used to do, or like the musician example, if you had an earlier, more raw sound, maybe consider releasing a project that taps into that nostalgic play. Nostalgia is a very big winner amongst humans. A pro tip on this is to expand in layers, not leaps. So don't do anything massive. Every jump, every new topic you add should really feel natural to your audience.

Again, like the example I gave earlier, it shouldn't feel like talking about brand and organic content strategy and then going to breath work. Like it should be if I wanted to get to breath work, I should probably inch my way over to that point rather than having just a complete black and white change. Now, based on the niche you're in and your desired associations, that's what's going to inform the topics that you want to explore and expand on. Now, a key reminder in this, and this is where a lot of you are potentially going to get hung up, so this is why I'm saying this, don't think of it as a rule when you're picking these topics.

These are guidelines that you can follow that make it easier for you to create content, but don't make it an absolute rule. As much as I was saying that it'd be weird for me to make content around brand organic content strategy and then immediately jump to breath work. Sure, that might be really abrupt and kind of like gnarly for the audience, but ultimately our goal is to do this for a long time. And so if that is something that you do want to talk about, it. Just jump and do it.

By no means are these rules to follow. These are guidelines to help you and make this easier for you. Not something that you have to overthink 24/7. In fact, I'm going to double down on this real quick because I think a lot of people sit down with a brand strategist or whatever and they build out these content pillars and then they always say, "Well, if it doesn't fall within the content pillar, we can't talk about it." But here's the thing. When Trevor and I sat down and identified what we were going to be talking about in our content, we didn't necessarily say Harley-Davidson's, but as you can probably tell if you're at this point in the video, I reference Harley a lot.

and I want to make content around my Harleyies as well. Is it one of my content pillars? No, it's not. But if I want to make a video about my Harley, I'm going to do it because I enjoy it. And I think that what it does do is it rounds out my brand and makes me more interesting.

I'm not just somebody who cares about brand and organic content. I also love my motorcycle and love to travel on it. I love to customize it. This is what will make you interesting and will cause you to actually stand out from your competitors. So the key here is don't be rigid.

Stay flexible. So if you're trying to figure this out, here's three questions that might help you. First question is, what am I genuinely passionate about discussing? If you can't tell by now, I'm very passionate about brand strategy. It probably comes through in my tone here.

That's what you want to talk about. You want to talk about something that you're going to want to talk about because when you do that passion comes through and people will connect with it and they will probably feel like you are more convicted about what you are saying and believe you more and actually take action on what you are saying rather than just sitting and listening. Number two is what will resonate with my audience most right now. So for me, for example, when I talk about brand strategy, something that is definitely a need in the audience that I have is organic content strategy.

I'm going to talk far less over the next year about my paid media strategy because that's something that a lot of people that I have spoken to over the last 5 years need less help on. They have more experience in that. On the contrary, a lot of people look at organic content on social as like this like blackbox magical mysterious thing that they do not understand. And so that's why a lot of the content that we're going to put out this year is going to be around organic content strategy. And I would argue number three is the most important of the three questions.

What will cause my audience to change their actions the most? Like I've said multiple times in this video, what you don't want when you're making educational content is for people to just be passively consuming and do nothing about it. You want them to take action. So, what can I speak to and how can I speak about it in a way that makes it easy for my audience to then listen and take action on what I am saying. So to make sure that we're not getting confused here, I just want to real quick emphasize.

I'm not saying talk about one thing. I don't want you to talk about just one thing. I want you to emphasize your one thing. So if we're looking at a pie, 80% of the pie should be that one main thing you want to be known for. But use the other 20% to round yourself out, to round your company out, and be more human.

This is how other people will relate to you. Here's an example. Look at your significant other or a friend of yours, right? If you talk about one thing to them all the time, 24/7, guess what? They're probably going to hate you.

They're going to get bored of you. And even more so, you are probably going to hate you and get bored of yourself. Sure, it's totally okay to spend 80% of your time talking about that one thing. 80% of what I'm talking about here is brand strategy and I'm going to continue doing that. But the other 20 I am going to utilize to round me out and make me more human.

I like to call this interest stacking. Here's a really good example. All of us probably at one point in our life started at a normal job and day one the only thing we have in common with our co-workers is that we work for this organization. But as you start to get more comfortable, you probably tend to reveal a few more things about yourself, interests you have. Let's say, for example, uh you reveal the fact that you're a huge Kendrick Lamar fan, and this is during the great Kendrick and Drake beef.

And somebody else on your team, Sarah, also is like, I love Kendrick as well. Suddenly, you go from having one thing in common, we both work for this company, to having two things in common. We work for this company and we both love Kendrick Lamar. What ends up happening there is you become work homies, work friends, right? It becomes more than just co-workers.

And as you start to learn more things that you have in common with each other, you may go from being work friends to friends. Even to the point where once you move on from the organization, you're still friends. I think of the same exact principle in building your brand online. The more interests and things that you find interesting that you talk about in your content, you give your audience more at bats to connect with you because they're like, I also like that thing. And how unique that there's this intersection of somebody who loves human optimization and making their body healthier, but they're also a complete computer science nerd.

That is a very interesting intersection. So, what you want to do is actually give your audience more at bats. So again, spend 80% of your time talking about the core subject, the core topic. Ideally, this is something that is in line with your offers that you have and drives revenue and profitability for yourself or your company. And then the other 20% talk about your interests.

Give your audience at bats to connect with you. An example that I love to use for this, whether we love him or we hate him, is Joe Rogan. Joe Rogan does an incredible job about talking about all the different interests that he has, right? conspiracy theories, politics, human optimization, hunting, UFC, comedy. I mean, the list goes on and on.

And so, if you're interested in one of those things, you might be interested in his podcast. If you're interested in two, three, or four of those things, you're probably a super fan. The only way people would know that they are a super fan or become a super fan though is if he talks about those things. If he just stuck to MMA and comedy, there'd be far less at bats for his audience to become obsessed. All right, we are on to content.

So, we've covered branding and what brand is and we've gone pretty in-depth on that. And that is laying the groundwork and giving us the direction that we are now going to take with our content. I like to think of it as we've established our brand and now content is what we will do to amplify the brand. And one thing I want to give you as kind of a qualifier or a statement upfront that will influence everything that we talk about from here on out is that I like to build a content strategy in the same way that a great personal trainer designs a great training program for their clients.

A great example is right now I am gonna start getting back into lifting and if I were to go into the gym and immediately start working on Ronnie Coleman's training routine, well, I'd be I would probably injure myself and I definitely wouldn't stick with it. And so, every good personal trainer knows that the best fitness routine or best training routine is one that you are going to stick with for a long time. We get the most results the longer we stick with it. Content is the exact same way. A lot of people make the mistake of trying to do what Mr.

Beast does or what Gary Vee does or what all these different creators online that you see are doing. Some of them go really high volume. Some of them go extremely high production. That is a great goal to aspire to, but do not start off that way. You will burn out quick and you won't stick with it.

And so everything that we design and we talk about, I want you to take and determine what do I feel like I can actually consistently stick with so that I get the results I'm looking for. So with that in mind, we are now going to start by choosing our content medium. This is the type of content, the style of content that you are going to emphasize. Now, I want to be very clear before we go into it. I think you should do all of these, but what I want you to determine is what is going to be your 80%.

What are you going to lean into the most? Picking the right content medium is about playing to your strengths while ensuring long-term sustainability. You want to be able to do this for a very long time, like I said at the top. So, we have four different mediums that we're going to be discussing here. We have written content, we have video content, audio content, and graphic/design content.

And so, we're going to start with written content first. Now, written typically is best for LinkedIn, uh, Twitter X, whatever you want to call it, Facebook, email, newsletters, ebooks, articles, those kinds of things. Honestly, the the best version of this is somebody who feels they are capable of taking high value information, maybe even really dense information and concepts and being able to articulate it in a written format that is concise and high value per sentence. When I'm thinking about video content, I'm thinking about value per second.