07 Choose Your Content Medium.

A really crucial question that I think a lot of people don't ask themselves and never evaluate the written content off of is, can you write this down, this concept, and have it make sense without saying it out loud? Some of the worst LinkedIn posts, you can tell they're bad because the person who wrote it has to explain what they're saying in the written. If you have to explain it or add commentary, it is not a good post and you should throw it in the trash. And then once you have a post written or an article written, do you like the idea of refining it, editing it, reviewing it?

I'll tell you, when I work on a LinkedIn post, I probably do about 10 different versions minimum of it where I reread it, write it. I mean, I just go back and forth, back and forth on it. And so I think something very similar to what we'll talk about here in uh video content as an editor, you have to be comfortable watching the same moment hundreds of times, right? Every editor watching heard that big time. Well, it's the same with editing written content.

And so you need to be comfortable with doing that. That's how you can evaluate whether or not written content is going to be a good medium for you to emphasize. The next one is video content. Video content is the highest leverage medium that you can engage in. With video, you get the main video that you filmed.

Let's say it's a long form like this. Well, we can also pull short form clips from it. We can also extract the audio and make that a podcast. We can also take the transcript and then take little quotes out of the transcript that were punchy or piffy and put those out on threads, Twitter, uh, Facebook status update as an image with the copy on it. There's a lot you can do.

You can then take the transcript and use it as your starting point to write LinkedIn posts if you want or articles or a newsletter. So video is the highest leverage because you put the effort of filming this and then you're able to redistribute or repurpose that content for so many different mediums for so many different platforms. But like I said at the top, if you right now watching this shudder at the idea of being on camera and it sounds like awful, well, I would encourage you don't do it yet.

Again, we want to be doing this for a very, very long time. And so, we want to create a system that we enjoy and we look forward to, not something that we dread and get anxiety when we see it on the calendar. Now, video content includes everything, right? This is YouTube long form, YouTube short form, Tik Tok, Instagram, LinkedIn video tab, Facebook reels, Spotify video. Now, like everything is pretty much pushing video these days.

And so again, not only are you able to repurpose it in so many ways, but you're able to feed so many different platforms the type of content or the medium of content that they are asking for. Now, if you're wondering who is video best for, well, honestly, it's really if you feel comfortable being in front of the camera, if you feel like you have the ability to articulate fairly clearly, I mean, look at me. I'm not necessarily the best on camera or anything, but like that's what we're doing here. So, if you feel that or you're not feeling like you're an absolute natural at it, but you're willing to improve and work on it in real time in public like myself, then okay, cool.

I would highly encourage you to take on video, you get so much more out of it. One thing that I left out is you can also extract stills from the video. So, you can also use those for social posts. I mean, the amount that you can get for the amount you put in is limitless. Couple of questions that you can ask yourself when evaluating if video is your medium are, are you comfortable on camera or are you at least willing to try and improve in public over time?

Can you handle uh negative feedback from people calling out your lack of abilities to articulate or uh be entertaining on camera? If so, do it. Do you get excited about visuals and grabbing attention? Okay, video is probably a good one for you. If not, maybe it's down the road.

And the last question is, can you speak concisely without rambling? Or again, if you can't, but you're comfortable learning on the job, learning in public, then okay, cool. Let's tackle it. Let's do it. The reason why we have this last question is because one of the things that I've noticed in a lot of talent that I filmed with over the years is that when you are extremely knowledgeable on a subject matter, something happens when you start talking about it.

I call it bunny brain. I get it all the time. I start saying something and then my brain fires off this next idea and it's like this little rabbit trail that I end up following and it can cause you to ramble and it can cause you to veer off topic. And if you find yourself doing that, that is not necessarily a reason to not do video content. That just means you need to have a better editor that can help make sure that the content stays focused.

Now, the next one is audio content. And this is mainly podcast. That's really what I would want you to think about when you're thinking about audio content. And really, it's exactly the same as video except for you remove the discomfort of staring into this lens, this eternal black abyss that you just have no idea what the reaction is on the other side. Because the majority of you don't have an amazing cameraman behind it like Trevor who is nodding and giving me affirmation that what I'm saying is good.

So, it is freaky to sit in front of a camera, stare into the lens, and talk. It's a lot easier to just have a mic in front of you and just riff. And so I would recommend if the idea of video is exciting and terrifying at the same time, maybe consider for a period of time starting with a podcast. And what I have found is when people do this, they very quickly realize, oh, I might be able to do this video thing. It's not that bad making content after all.

And so it allows you to see yourself in a very similar scenario and recognize that it's not that terrifying, not that freaky, it's actually very high reward. Maybe I could do the same thing with video. So if video was something that seemed interesting to you, but you get a lot of anxiety and fear that pops up in your mind and your body when you think about it, then I would strongly consider starting with a podcast. Three questions to ask yourself here are, do you feel confident speaking without a visual element?

If you decide to do a podcast, that's amazing. What we are missing is a sensory input. There is no visuals for the viewer to be able to help understand what you are saying. And so, if you're explaining a really in-depth complicated concept, you have no visual aid to help illustrate what you are saying. And so you have to use your words to be able to articulate and paint the picture for your audience.

This is more difficult. And so it's not like podcasting is just easier than video. I think a lot of people actually underestimate what goes into a top podcast. They think, well, I mean, it doesn't require any visuals, so that makes it a lot easier. But that means that your descriptions and the way you articulate your information has to be even more clear.

The next question is, do you enjoy deeper conversations or deeper dives into one specific subject? I find that I prefer longer form podcasts personally and I think that if you look at the top charts, yes, there are short episodes and and shows that don't do like hour plus long podcasts, but I would say the majority of the top 100 are a little bit longer than 20 minutes, for example. And so if you feel comfortable being able to go deep on a subject matter for that long, I think this would be a great medium for you.

And the last one is, does your voice have enough energy and clarity to keep people engaged? A lot of people would hear this and think, well, I don't have that interesting sounding of a voice. Well, I disagree. I think one the cadence in which you speak. If you've noticed sometimes when I talk I talk really fast then I slow down.

I talk louder and then I bring it down. I'm always trying to emphasize certain things. And so when you go on a fast pattern and then slow down, for example, it allows the audience to understand you're trying to emphasize something. It's a pattern interrupt. So there's a lot of different techniques.

There's a million creators on YouTube here that can show you how to be more engaging with how you communicate. But I actually want to take a slightly different approach to this. Throughout this course, I've mentioned kind of my life philosophy, which is taking whatever is given to you and using it as your advantage, even if it was viewed as a disadvantage by most people. If you have a monotone voice, I would actually lean into that and I would make that your bit. Again, what a lot of people would view as a disadvantage or a weakness, I think you can make that your thing.

Honestly, some of my favorite podcasts and comedians are very monotone and sarcastic, and I think that that makes for a very interesting show. So, again, whatever you see right now as the reason why you shouldn't do it, I would argue is probably the very reason why you should do it. Now, the last medium is visual/graphic content. What this looks like is infographics, carousels, PDFs that you upload to LinkedIn as a carousel. That's kind of the hack there.

Or anything that is designheavy. Now, a lot of people are going to hear this and think, "Well, that's just for designers. I'm not I'm not a designer." Well, one, there's a million tools out there that can take a complete novice with design and make them look like, you know, fairly intermediate. There's Canva, there's Figma, there's all these Adobe programs with AI and how it's evolving right now. I mean, we're almost at the point where like, you know, my grandma could design a really dope carousel for Instagram.

Like, it's not that difficult. Okay, the real thing here is it's not necessarily you designing it. You might have a designer that you work with. It doesn't always have to be you implementing it, but I think a lot of people that are going to resonate with this are individuals who don't like video content, but want to be able to explain and articulate their thoughts utilizing not just words, but visuals. Something that's working really well right now in February 2025 on Instagram is carousels.

Carousels are murdering. And I think the simpler the better. And this is where you compare a visual and written word. So instead of just having to explain things through a blog post or a LinkedIn post, you have two different ways to be able to explain the concept. Three questions to ask yourself uh if you're considering visual or graphic content, are you good at or curious about tools like I mentioned, Canva, Adobe, Figma, any of those?

Number two, can you simplify complex concepts into a visual? Tiny little side note, an amazing example of this is an Instagram account. I believe it's called Visualize Value. This individual, whoever they are, I'm I don't know them, does an amazing job of taking pretty highlevel complex concepts and making them into unbelievably simple and very easy to understand visuals. And I think the audience really appreciates the way that they are able to do that.

And third, uh, do you enjoy the process of making content look great, looking polished? This is not necessary. Uh, you could literally draw on a piece of paper, take a photo of it, and upload it. That's actually, as a side note, something that is currently working really well online is drawing something or creating something physical in the real world, taking a photo of it, and uploading it. You can do whatever you want here.

But if you do have a a love for refining visuals, this might be an interesting medium for you to explore. All right, so we've chosen our medium or mediums that we feel comfortable creating in. Now, some of you might choose all four of those. That's what I'm doing. I highly encourage it.

If you feel like you have either the team around you, bandwidth, or skill set, or ideally all three, then yeah, by all means, use all four of them. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to choose one of them if the idea of doing all four feels overwhelming in the beginning because again, we're not trying to jump to Ronnie Coleman's training routine. We're not trying to jump to Mr. Beast's content output, okay? We're trying to do one thing at a time to start to gain momentum and stick with this for a long time.

So, now that we've picked our medium or mediums, it's time to choose our platforms. What I recommend people do is prioritize two to three platforms. I don't want you trying to crush across all the different platforms. I know a lot of people out there talk about post everywhere, post all the time, and that's a strategy and that's fine. I would actually discourage you from doing that.

I think that you gain a lot more by picking, let's say, two platforms that you're going to learn heavily and really emphasize original content for making content specific for that platform. More on that in a little bit. The reason why I say two or three rather than one is you want to avoid single channel, single platform risk. Here's a prime example that we just recently went through. Again, we're filming this in February 2025.

Just a month ago, we had this wonderful 12-h hour period where Tik Tok completely disappeared in the US. Nobody could download it. They couldn't access it or anything. Guess what happened? Complete terror.

Everyone was freaking the out, or I should say everyone whose business or income was tied solely to Tik Tok. And more than likely, they were the individuals who found a lot of success on Tik Tok and then never chose to build on other platforms to diversify their reach. And by doing that, they were unbelievably vulnerable. Now, I'm not saying that I think that the US government is going to start like banning all of these apps. I do not think that.

But what I do know is that algorithms change. The way that platforms behave and serve your content to your audience is always changing. I mean, if you were to look at how many tweaks Instagram makes to their algorithm and the way that content is served, it's insane. And the real real is that it's changing all the time for different people. You and I are getting different updates at different times.

You have features available to you that I do not have and vice versa. And so, I really encourage you, don't try and post on all the different platforms. What I would encourage you to do though is make sure that you aren't tied to one single platform. Now, what I do like to do is uh I'm a Lord of the Rings nerd, so I like this analogy. I like the Eye of Sauron approach.

I do like to of my two or three that I'm prioritizing, put more emphasis or more priority and resources towards one at a time, but I try to rotate between, let's say I pick three, I try to rotate between those three. And so I think of the other two on maintenance mode while I'm focused on YouTube, let's say. And then maybe I get YouTube into maintenance mode and I move over to LinkedIn. Now, how am I going about this? Because we're at a very wild time in my life where I am starting to create content.

As you can tell right now, this is the first time in my life where I have started to make consistent content for myself, not for the talent I'm working with. And so if you were to look at my social media profiles right now, you would probably see that YouTube, Tik Tok, X, Threads, all these different platforms, I have less than like 4,000 followers on all of them. Most of them less than 2,000. And then on Instagram, I have like 68,000 followers. And so if you were assuming that I would start on Instagram, that's a very fair assumption.

But actually, what I've done is I've picked four platforms that I'm going to prioritize. Now, I am recommending that you do two or three. I've been in this game for 16 years. So, there's a little bit of a discrepancy there. I want to make sure that that's very clear.

Do more of what I say in this, not as much of what I do. So, what I actually did is when we first started making content, I started with LinkedIn.