08 Choosing the Right Platforms.

And the reason why is because I believed that the majority of my potential clients were on LinkedIn more than Instagram. I also felt more comfortable with LinkedIn and Instagram. And so, those were the two platforms I started with. So, we started on LinkedIn, made a couple posts, and then we did a post on Instagram. And I would encourage you to do the same.

Start where you feel comfortable. A lot of people really push the whole get out of your comfort zone. No, that Not in the beginning. In the beginning, you want to build the habit of doing it. Like I remember when I was really into powerlifting, a lot of times when my buddies wanted to get into lifting and were trying to figure out how, I would tell them, go to the gym for 10 minutes 5 days a week.

If you just build the habit of driving to the gym, you're going to do it. That's usually the issue. And it's the same here. Build the habit of making and posting your content. Make it as easy as possible.

Now, what we are going to do is we're starting to expand. So, like we're doing right now, we're filming long form YouTube content. And so, we're going to expand from just LinkedIn and Instagram to YouTube and a podcast. And the reason why I want to do that is I believe that short form content is amazing to drive awareness. And I think it's super powerful and very effective to get brand recognition.

I view long form as the place where conversion actually happens. This is where we're able to truly demonstrate our excellence and expertise. Okay? So, for you, if you're watching this and you're considering uh whether or not to do long form or short form content, well, short form has a lower barrier to entry. So, it allows you to start to get the repetitions in and like I said earlier, build that habit.

But eventually, I would encourage you to implement one or two long form styles. either YouTube long form video or long form podcasts, ideally both like I'm doing. And the reason why is because the more time somebody spends with you, one, the more they're going to see your expertise and your knowledge, but two, there is this whole sunk cost fallacy. And the way it works is the more time somebody spends with you, the more willing they are to actually act on an offer that you present them. For the very few of you watching this that have bought a Harley-Davidson or probably any other vehicle, I just only buy Harley's.

Their finance team has this very interesting tactic that they do. They have you fill out all this paperwork and then they literally, I guarantee they get the information. They run your credit. They get all that within seconds and they make you sit there for like 10 or 15 minutes just talking to the sales associate. Then what they do is they take you on a tour through the whole dealership.

And all they're trying to do is get you to invest more time in the dealership so that you feel like, well, I don't want to waste my time now. I might as well do this transaction. There's obviously a lot more that goes into it. But I view long form content the same. The more time your audience spends with you, the more likely they are to transact or convert on your offer.

So what is the point here? Start where you're comfortable. If you're already active on LinkedIn, Instagram, YouTube, Tik Tok, wherever, then I would just use that to start. Again, we want to build the muscle and the habit of making and posting content. And I emphasize posting because a lot of you make and then it sits on your photo album on your phone and you never actually put it out.

The next question that I would ask yourself when trying to figure out which platform do I feel most comfortable on is where do you naturally spend the most of your time? Like if you spend a lot of time scrolling on Tik Tok, you probably understand what content does well on Tik Tok. And if you go from just doom scrolling to literally consuming the same but with a more strategic mindset and thinking, okay, why did I like watching this video? And you start taking notes on that, you're going to keep track of best practices that then you can start to implement into your own content.

The third question is where is your audience? Back to the exercise we did the brand journey framework, right? We created our desired outcome and then we reverse engineered from there to today. Well, based on what our desired outcome is, who are we needing to reach in order for that to occur? And where do we believe it's a hypothesis that they exist or they live the most?

For me, we're building a consulting firm where we work with entrepreneurs, creators, entertainers to help build their brands. And a lot of them happen to be on LinkedIn very actively. And so that's why we started with LinkedIn as our platform of choice because it was a hypothesis of mine that we had more qualified potential leads existing on LinkedIn than let's say Instagram for example. And then the finally I would ask yourself are they on Tik Tok for quick engaging content or are they on YouTube for more long- for deep dives into one specific subject matter or are they around on LinkedIn trying to be one of those thought leaders right now.

Basically, you want to make an educated guess on where you think your audience is and then test it, monitor it. Are you getting actual leads? Are people reaching out to you inquiring about what you do? If not, there's two potential options. One, your content sucks and nobody gives a Two, maybe you picked the wrong platform.

Now, once we've determined what medium we like, what platform we're going to want to work on, okay, cool. We now have a good understanding and baseline of what we are skilled at. Once you realize that, double the down on it. If you decided you're going to do video and written, but man, your video content is just not performing and your written is going really well, I would encourage you not to eliminate video, but reduce the amount of effort you put towards your video content and increase the amount for the written content.

There are special moments in time and when you are popping on a platform, that is not the time in my opinion to go about trying to level up other skill sets. That is the time where you double down and you pour gas on the thing that you are actually good at and can consistently put out that your audience deems as high quality and high value. Now, on the flip side, if you're confident on video and you feel like you're able to articulate your thoughts, you're entertaining, engaging, well, then double down on either short form or long form video.

Again, it's whatever you feel you are best at, you should be leaning into that heavily. And like I said earlier, if you prefer audio, start a podcast. you'll eventually, I think, get to a point where you feel comfortable doing video and then you're doing a higher leverage activity. The next thing is look at your results and don't listen to your ego. I'm just going to be unbelievably vulnerable and transparent here.

I have been seeing the footage from this course and I actually feel like I look fat as this. I feel like I've gained weight. I would encourage you to push past some of that ego some of those insecurities. I understand why they're there. I get it.

Trust me. But if you are gaining traction and getting engagement in your content and people are resonating with it, who gives a how you think you look? More than likely, people aren't even thinking about that. Like the real real is I'm sure none of you even thought of that. Maybe you did, but probably didn't until I just said it.

And so now I just, you know, brought that to your attention. If I allowed my ego to dictate what we did, we would probably not release any of the content we've made so far. And so what I would encourage you to do is look and track your metrics. Look at the engagement. Look at the results you're getting.

And stop listening to that little demon on your shoulder that keeps telling you how weird your voice sounds, how fat you look, how tired you look, how weird you sound, what whatever it is, whatever that inner up voice is, that is not what is propelling you towards your goals. Another thing that I would really encourage you to focus on is that a small correct audience that is engaged is so much more powerful than having a massive audience of people that have no idea what the you're doing and could give a about it. For example, if you were to look at my Instagram page, I have 68,000 followers.

Nowadays, that's nothing. But back when Instagram first started, that was a lot. But those followers are not engaged with me. I got them like 10 years ago off of my landscape photography. And so a lot of you watching this probably have 500 to a thousand followers, but those followers might actually be very engaged in your subject matter and very interested in the offer you have.

Whereas if you look at mine, all of them follow me or the majority of them followed me for Pacific Northwest landscape photography that I was doing 10 years ago. And so now I'm going to have to go through the process of converting people to my new content and I'm going to lose a shitload of people. And so there's so many creators online that have these massive I know many people with millions of followers that make very little off of their social media content. I also know a lot of people that have less than 10,000 followers that are making millions of dollars a year off of their following.

Why? Because those 5,000 people that follow them are their target audience, their potential customers. So again, don't look at your ego of the inflated numbers, the the big follower count, so that when your friends see it, they're really impressed. No, who gives a about that? You want to make sure that you are growing and acquiring the correct audience.

So please do not be discouraged if you don't have hundreds of thousands or millions of followers. There are plenty of people out there with less than 10,000 that are making more money than you could ever dream of. Now another thing is you want to track the performance on the platform. That is an indicator that you are making content that the platform prefers and so people will see it and engage with it. And ultimately this is probably especially for the people early on in their soloreneur or business days or a creator.

This is how people are aware of your offer. Okay? So it's important for you to play the game. But what I would really encourage you to do is actually pay more attention to conversions. So, if you are a musician, are more people streaming your music?

If you have a clothing brand, are more people buying your hoodies? If you're a video editor, are more people hiring you for various gigs? If you're an investor, are more companies coming to you for investment opportunities rather than you having to reach out to them? Because time and time again, what I have seen people do and it's a huge mistake is they build their whole brand and content based on performing well on Tik Tok, Instagram or YouTube and they never build it based on actually converting to sales or to streams.

This is a huge mistake because unless I have this completely incorrect, the majority of you probably watching this aren't just trying to be famous for famous sake. You're trying to drive awareness that leads to a desired outcome. And if you don't optimize around the desired outcome, what you end up doing is you're going to waste one, two, maybe three years and lots of money and time chasing some vanity metric that doesn't actually improve your bottom line. The key here is not to think of it as one or the other.

It's both. You need to make sure that you are paying close attention to how you're performing on the platform so that they can see your and become aware of what you have to offer. But then also make sure you are optimizing your content that leads to action. I would rather have 30 40% less likes and views and subscribers or followers, but have that audience convert at a higher percentage than have millions of followers and have a very low percentage of conversion. That's my personal preference because again, we're not making this content here for me to become famous.

That is in no way the goal at all. I actually really hope that doesn't ever happen. My goal is purely to become known with my potential customers. And that's it. I don't need everybody to know who I am.

And so, make sure that you are mapping and building out your strategy and optimizing your content for the correct thing. All right. Now, we're going to determine your posting cadence. This is a big debate, big question that a lot of people have. I get it.

Honestly, I probably got this question at least 300 times in the last year. No joke. And it's a debate that occurs heavily online and a lot of different top creators that you should look up to have differing opinions here. And so I'm going to share with you my philosophy here. Before we dive into the framework for determining your posting cadence and then another framework for how to increase the volume and increase your cadence, I want to give you my overarching philosophy on quality versus quantity.

The great debate has existed probably for the last eight years online. And I think that a lot of people that enter this debate don't actually define what these two things mean and what they are and what their purpose is. So quantity is something that a lot of people have overindexed on. I'll say, okay, they believe that you post a high volume of content in order to gain the most impressions and show up everywhere, having your face in front of people all the time. And that's a beautiful byproduct that occurs from posting a high volume of content.

But I actually view volume of content as a tool in what I call the accordion method. The way I like to think of it is I don't know what quality is and neither do you. We sit around ideulating on a piece of content and we'll say something like this is a highquality piece and that ultimately is a subjective opinion. That is you subjectively saying this is high quality. But we don't give a about what you think.

We care about what your audience thinks. Your audience is who determines what quality is, not you. And we use volume to acquire that data quicker. If you were to post 10 videos over 30 days, okay, that's one video every 3 days. Cool.

If you were to take the same amount of videos and post them in a week, you're going to gain insights faster. And what insights am I talking about? What your audience is resonating with. What are they liking more? What are they commenting on more?

what's getting more views. Those are indicators of your audience signaling to you, the creator, hey, I call this higher quality content. Quality does not have anything to do with the fancy that we're trying to do here, the lights, the camera, right? Like the the set that you're working on. No, that.

That has nothing to do with quality. Think about this. Some of the most viral videos, most viewed and engaged with videos ever online are filmed at night in the dark on a cell phone. Like, they're grainy. You can barely tell what's going on, right?

Quality is a subjective thing. And because it's subjective, I would rather have the audience determine what it is rather than me pontificating on what I think quality is. So again, you post high quantity, high volume content to get the learnings on what your audience says is quality and then what I believe you do is you compress the accordion and that's when you start to put more effort per piece of content. We're going to get into that in a little bit here. I don't want to spoil the mana right now, but that's my overarching philosophy and kind of the the shade the lens that you can view the rest of this section through.

So now that we understand what quality and quantity are, we are going to determine our posting cadence. What I would encourage you to do is first start with the highest leverage platform. Okay, what do I mean by the highest leverage platform? Well, one, what are you getting the most results from? Where are you getting your leads?

Where are you getting the majority of your engagement? Right? What is performing well by the platform standards and by conversion standards? And number two, what platform allows you to create one piece of content that then you're able to repurpose into many different pieces of content? Typically, what this looks like is a long form piece of content, aka this course, right?

A YouTube video is going to provide you so much ability to be able to, like I said at the top, clip moments, so you can get shorts, uh, you're able to pull the transcript, get quotes, use that transcript to then make a LinkedIn post.