09 Your Posting Cadence.

You can extract the audio for a podcast. You can then pull stills from the video to use in social posts. It's a very high leverage medium and platform. Now, please again, I really pushed this in the last section and I'm going to just continue reinforcing it. If you are tracking conversions, which you should, conversions offplatform, if you notice that there's one or two platforms that are leading to a lot more conversions offplatform, please double, triple, quadruple down on those platforms.

On one of the teams that I was running, we learned when actually looking at the data that YouTube was our number one lead provider, Instagram was number two, and LinkedIn was number three. But here's the very interesting thing. That was by absolute. But if you look at percentage of audience that is actually converting, LinkedIn was number one by a mile, it was a way smaller audience because it was a platform that we took on and started really optimizing for way later than YouTube and Instagram. So what we realized is we should allocate far more resources to LinkedIn.

If it has a higher percentage of qualified leads coming from it, all we have to do is increase the amount of impressions we're getting and in theory that will be the number one platform, not just by percentage, but by absolute leads. We discovered this at a time when LinkedIn was just starting to emerge as like the next big platform. And so we actually as a team had kind of devalued it. We viewed it as an afterthought. It wasn't our number one priority.

But the moment that we looked at the data, bing bing bing, track your data. The moment we did that, we saw massive returns. All of a sudden, LinkedIn became something that we were putting. I mean, we were spending probably 20 $30,000 a month just on LinkedIn organic content alone. The next one is actually going further or deeper on what we started this section off on, which is volume for speed and learnings, not just reach.

I encourage you in the early days to increase whatever volume you think you need to do right now, increase it. Okay? And the reason why I said it up top, but I'm going to reinforce it and emphasize it again. You want to know what your audience deems as quality. And you want to know that as soon as possible.

And so what I would encourage you to do is increase the frequency in which you post. A great example of this is a previous team that I ran. We started our YouTube efforts by posting three videos a week. Then we increased it to five. Now, were these highly optimized YouTube videos?

No. I wouldn't even call them edited. They were just trimmed. There was no editing being applied. And there was definitely no graphics or any intentionality to how we crafted the intro, the packaging, nothing.

What we were doing though is not trying to optimize because we weren't at that phase yet. We were at the learning acquisition phase. We were trying to understand what is the audience resonating with the most. What are the questions they're asking? How are they engaging and behaving with this content?

What this allows you to do is then determine what they're with and do more of that. And when I say do more of that, I don't necessarily mean more volume. I mean putting more effort per piece. So let's say you were posting five YouTube videos a week. That's a lot.

What if you took the effort that you put and the time and resources you put into five videos a week into one? And that one video was based off of the knowledge and insights that you now have of what your audience has said to you is quality. Sounds like you might be getting some traction and actually start growing and getting subscribers and views. It's crazy and it actually works. Quality is not your personal preference.

Quality is determined by your audience. Plain and simple. One of the biggest traps I see a lot of you making is that you are making the decision for your audience. Maybe you have a piece of content that you've been sitting on and you think, "Ah, this isn't high quality enough and you're just not posting it. You're not putting it out there and you're making the subjective decision that this is not worth your audience's time and they're not going to get value out of it." But how do you know if you don't put it out?

Especially in the beginning. I understand mature creators, you get to a point when you are a content creator where you do actually be able like you know this is not going to hit. Like we can't even post this. Nobody's going to give a about this. That does happen.

But in the early days, you don't have a clue. You don't know anything about your audience or what they want. You have your perception of what you think they want, but more than likely, it's not that accurate. And so, I encourage you, stop guessing. Stop making the decision for them and allow them to tell you what they want.

And the last point in determining your content cadence or your upload cadence is avoid the perfect post trap. I like to say that perfect is the enemy of posted. If you're struggling to post daily, yes, me too. I agree with you. Most people can't post daily.

That is kind of like an absurd level to just immediately jump into. And so, I would encourage you, visit the idea of posting three times per week. Visit the idea of posting once a week, once every other week. Look at what we're doing. We're probably going to be posting one long form video on YouTube a month, maybe every three weeks or so.

But we're putting more effort per piece rather than high volume. Now, Caleb, I thought you just said do high volume in the beginning in order to learn what the audience resonates with. Well, I have a little bit of a leg up. And I'll give you kind of like an insight into that just so that you understand that I'm not bullshitting you. In the last year, I met with over 2,000 businesses and consistently ran question and answer sessions with them.

I did a roundt session with literally 2,000 business owners. And I know what the common questions were. I have a very good pulse on what people are wanting to hear from me based on what they would ask me at these Q&As's. I also have been in the industry for a very long time. And so, not only do I know what people are wanting, I also know what they need.

I know what the majority of the industry is currently saying. Half of these on YouTube are telling you a lot of around how to grow your brand or how to scale your organic content. and I've seen it long enough that now I'm at a point where I'm a little bit fed up and that's why I'm putting this content out for you. I would encourage you unless you have those insights, unless you've met with 2,000 different individuals that map towards your ideal customer, then I would probably start with high volume.

But again, if high volume means one post every other week in the beginning because that's all you can do, then do that. whatever you can actually put out consistently, please start with that. Don't try and jump to the Ronnie Coleman method and squat 800 lb when you've never squatted 135. And the last point to that is again, stop aiming for perfection, speed wins. So, for example, we're filming this course, right?

And we've invested a good amount of money into this and a lot of effort and we have been very intentional with all the little elements, right? like uh the set, the lighting, uh the framing, the way that we're shooting this on three different cameras, the audio, like all this right? We're trying to be very cognizant of all of it. But there's been semis that go by. There's been police officers that are, you know, woo woo, the sirens going by.

There's all kinds of And it's not perfect. And we could stop every single time and we could potentially even decide this isn't the right space. Uh maybe we should have filmed in something that was more uh audio friendly. But guess what? Perfect is the enemy of Postit.

And so we are still going to capture this, put it together, and we are going to post it. And what have we been doing every night after we finish filming? We've been going home and figuring out what we would do differently and how we're going to improve on the next version of this. So, what I would encourage you to do is instead of letting all the different problems or issues you see with the content you're working on right now and using that as a reason to not post, that. Post it and take note of what you're going to do on future pieces that you make.

So, we've determined our posting cadence and we're at a point now where we've been doing it consistently. Congratulations. Good for you. That's awesome. A lot of people give up after like a week or two.

And so if you've made it even like 2 or 3 months of posting, you are in the top 1%. So congrats. You're awesome. I'm proud of you. And I want you to do more.

And by more, I mean I want you to increase your volume. And here's how we're going to do it. One, you are going to leverage a content pillar approach. I want you to identify your pillar content. Typically, this is more long form content.

Okay? So, think like a YouTube video, long form, a deep dive uh thread. Maybe it's a long form written post on LinkedIn or it's a newsletter that you send out to your email list. Then what you're going to do is you're going to do what I affectionately call mining. You're going to go through your long- form content and mine for the gold.

If it's a newsletter, what you're looking for is bite-sized chunks that are self-contained. So, this is a paragraph that you have in your newsletter that you could extract and pull and it would make sense and be valuable in and of itself without the other context. You're also probably going to find maybe a quote or two that you could pull from that. Okay? And then you could probably also do a version where you take the entire newsletter and you summarize it in call it five or six sentences.

So, a medium form post on YouTube. If you have a long form YouTube video, well, what you're going to have is an editor or editors that go through and they're mining for the gold. They're going to find the moments and extract them that they know are going to perform well and resonate with your audience. Typically, you're looking for a powerful moment that maybe is a slightly contrarian view or is a nuanced take on an already discussed subject. For example, my quality versus quantity moment.

I almost guarantee Trevor is going to clip that moment and we'll post it on Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube short, all that because that's going to be a moment that will do well for our audience. Now, this is nothing new. I like to call it the waterfall distribution model. But ultimately, I got to pay homage to the actual man who came up with this. This is the OG Gary Vee.

He came up with the content framework and how he extracts thousands of posts from one long form piece of content. And he's been doing this since I want to say like 2015, 2016, right? Like originally it started with releasing Daily V and then clipping moments from that and posting them on Instagram before reals, Tik Tok, any of that was a thing. And so here's what I recommend you do. Take your high value content.

Let's use a YouTube video for example. And what you're going to do is you are going to break this down into short form clips. You're going to extract quotes that you can put out on threads and X. You're gonna take the transcript and find a moment that you can rewrite into a LinkedIn post. You're gonna then take that LinkedIn post and post it on Facebook as well.

Then one of the shorts that you clipped from that YouTube video that you post on Instagram, use the LinkedIn post as your caption for that post. Okay? Do you see how literally in the moment right now, I'm not looking at notes. I'm literally coming up with this in the moment because there is so much that you can extract from a YouTube long form video. I haven't even gotten to carousels yet.

Now, what I want you to do is take the different sections from your YouTube video and make two carousel slides per section. Now, you got to simplify. You can't have a fuckload of text. In fact, the best practice is to have one very basic, very easy to understand image followed by one, two sentences at most per slide. And so diving even deeper on it, you want to make sure that the first two slides in your carousel are taken from the hook that you made for the YouTube video.

So reinterpret the hook that you made for the YouTube video into the carousel opening two slides. The reason why is because when it's served immediately, they're seeing the first uh tile, the first slide. But if they didn't engage with it, Instagram gives you a second atbat. How nice of them. They're going to serve the carousel again to your followers, but it's going to be on slide number two.

So, you want to ensure that you have a hook for one and two. Now, another thing to note is uh this is not a rule, it's an observation. Often times, listicles tend to, at least as of February 2025, they do better in carousel form. So, if you have a video that is 10 things I learned about investing in my 30s, okay, cool. That's going to be an amazing amazing carousel.

However, if you have like a really complex deep dive on a subject matter that is like not in any way made for the lay listener or viewer, then I would probably consider maybe just taking one section of that video and then expanding that into a carousel rather than trying to compress an entire video. So, when I say taking a YouTube video, please try to stick more towards listicles when you're doing this. Otherwise, you're going to want to just take one section of the YouTube video and turn that into the carousel.

So, in this example, I couldn't even keep track of how many different pieces of content I just listed out. It's easily over 10 pieces of content that we just created off of one video that you filmed. Insane amounts of output for what you put in, aka very high leverage activity. Now, the next thing that you're going to want to do is scale by platform, not all at once. First, we picked our medium.

Then, we picked our platforms. Then, we determined our posting cadence. Cool. We've been doing that consistently for a while now on two or three platforms that we determined were our highest priority platforms. Now that I of Sauron approach that I mentioned earlier is really going to come in handy.

Do not try to scale up all three or two platforms that you are emphasizing at once. If you do this, you won't do any of them well. And so just like I mentioned with the Sauron approach, what you're going to do is let's say for example your top three, you go LinkedIn, YouTube, Instagram. All right, LinkedIn being number one, we're going to attack increasing volume there first. So, what does that look like?

Well, you make sure that YouTube and Instagram are on maintenance mode. They're not going to go down, but they're not going to be growing. That is not your emphasis right now. You want those just consistently putting out enough content to keep the current audience engaged. If you grow, amazing.

That's a wonderful little surprise, but that is not our goal. Maintain focus on LinkedIn. And when we're focusing on LinkedIn and scaling this up, you have two different ways to scale it up. In my opinion, you can either literally increase the volume of posts you do or you can increase the amount of effort you put per post. As of February 2025, I actually would encourage you instead of just increasing the volume, I would start with increasing the amount of effort you put per post.

So let's say for example, you were posting five times a week on LinkedIn. I actually would encourage you as of right now, and this is way different than what I would have said a year ago. I'm very much on the higher effort per piece of content train right now. And so I would take the effort you put into five pieces and put it into three. I am finding you get far more out of a very, very extensive and high value piece of content than you do off of medium value content at a high volume.

Here's an example. There was an individual that I worked with. They loved volume and they wanted to post a minimum of four videos a month on YouTube. Now, when we did that, those videos would average around 250,000 views a video, which is really great for most people, but according to our standards, that was actually lower than what we were looking for. Add all of that up together, and that's a million views a month.

I would argue that one video a month that gets a million views is way more valuable for both the audience and yourself than the four videos that get 250,000 views. Well, Caleb, where did you come to that conclusion? It's the same collective views. Ah, it's the same number of views. It's not the same number of eyeballs.

Meaning the video that got a million views had a high percentage of those views be new audience. These are people that have never consumed your content or rarely consumed your content before. Now the videos that got 250,000 more than 60 to 70% of the views were from the current audience. And there's nothing wrong with nurturing your current audience. I want to make sure that that's clear.

But can you see a massive discrepancy here? It's very clear to me that the millionview video once per month has a disproportionate amount of value compared to four 250,000 view videos a month. I believe that this is why Mr. Beast Jimmy Donaldson went with this method. When he was posting content on YouTube, he wasn't trying to post a video every 3 days.

He wasn't trying to post a video every week. He was posting a video every 4 to 8 weeks. There was times where he would go two months in between posting a video. Why? because he was putting so many resources and so much effort into each piece.

Because what he knew is rather than the majority of YouTubers who are trying to put out a video every week, if he put all that effort into a video every six weeks, way more people were going to see it, way more people were going to enjoy it and share it with others because it was such a crazy concept and crazy execution of that concept. And so I'm actually on the lower volume, higher effort per piece train. And the reason why I'm saying lower volume and not higher quality is again quality is subjective.

Now over time you get to a point where you know what your audience deems as quality. So you could use the term higher quality content. I just don't like to say it because I don't want to confuse you and make you think that I know what quality is. I don't. You do.

So back to LinkedIn. What I want you to do is focus on putting more effort per piece of content you do. Now what do you do more of? Well, if we've been doing five posts a week, for example, we have a pretty good insight on what topics and what kind of structure or formats people on the platform are resonating with and preferring. So, one, we can just do less of the other and more of that.

But here's another little hack for you. Look at the top 10% performing content. Take the last 90 days, for example, or if you've only been posting for 30 days, take the last 30 days. Whatever amount of time that you can do up to 90 days. And what I want you to do is identify your top 10% content.

And then what I want you to do is study the out of it. And what you're looking for is not all these different things that you think could have been the reason why it performed well. What you're looking for is what occurred in all of these pieces of content that I can then replicate and put into every piece I do moving forward. If it exists in only one or two, then it's kind of a crapshoot. But if you identify, and usually you're only going to find one, maybe two things.

If you identify those one or two things, you raise the probability of your future content performing better than average. And so what you're doing is you're always learning and optimizing off of your top content, not your general content. A lot of people look at everything they're making and they try and extract learnings from it. But why would you want to learn from the bottom 10% or the bottom 20%. I want to always be looking at the top tier performance and how can I replicate these scenarios, these conditions that led to it performing so well.

And again, please increase the volume because you see that that platform, that channel is driving more conversions. Again, whatever conversions look like for you. If that's email newsletter signups, if that's more streams to your music, if that's more downloads on your short film on Amazon Prime, whatever it is, I want you to optimize for conversions first. And another question that I get a lot of times is like, if my content isn't performing well, well, what do I do? Well, you do what I just said.

Even if your content isn't performing super well, there is some content that's performing better than others. And so look at the top 10% and study what that is. And I would encourage you to do this on a monthly basis. If you just stick with what the original core findings, okay, cool. You're just optimizing on that.

But if every month you re-evaluate the top 10%, you're always going to be lading up. You're always improving off of your best work and learning from your best work rather than sticking with the learnings that you had 6 months ago. So the next thing that we're going to focus on is making your content sustainable. Like we said at the top, this only matters if we stick with it for a long time. That's when we start to get the actual returns on our investment.

And so, first off, I want to just say you need to be playing for the long term. If you hate video, you're not going to stick with it. So, don't do video. Eventually, after making content, maybe as an audio only format or a design focus or potentially even doing written, you may get comfortable with the idea of putting yourself out there online, getting feedback, and being okay with that feedback. In which case, maybe you'll get more comfortable with the idea of doing video.

But if that idea or that concept of filming a video like this with a camera here, camera here, camera there, that sounds freaky to most people, I wouldn't push yourself to do it. Again, I want you to ease into this so that it's something that you can do for a very long time. Content creation should be sustainable for years, not months. Now, the next thing is to build a simple content machine. What do I mean by that?

Well, we're not Mr. Beast on day one. And so, what you need to do is set a baseline of what you are wanting to accomplish. Let's say it's one video every two weeks for YouTube. And maybe it's posting three shorts a week on Instagram and YouTube Shorts.

Cool. That's simple. Now, what we can do is consistently do that. And if we do it for 2 or 3 months, then what we can do is raise the bar and increase the volume that we want to make. Some people find batching content to be highly effective for them.

Some people will literally block a 12-hour day and film three or four YouTube videos, some shorts, and a couple podcasts. And if that works for you, amazing. What I have observed, again, not a rule, just an observation, is for a lot of individuals, this puts a lot of pressure on the day. And if you find yourself feeling that pressure a lot of times, again, what I have observed is that that causes poor performance on the day of filming because they feel so much pressure they get anxiety, they end up getting sick or all these crazy things start popping up rather than having it be more of a low pressure environment where maybe you film a video here, a video there.

The the thing that you need to do is make sure you are aligning your strategy with your calendar and your schedule. What do you have available to you? Do you have time to be able to film it throughout the week or do you have to batch? If you're in a scenario where you have to batch content, what I would recommend is ensuring that the team you're working with is a team that can make the environment conducive for you to deliver your best content. Which leads me to the next point, which is remove yourself from the execution.

And we're going to go really deep on this one. Out of all of these different points within the make it sustainable section here, this is where we're going to spend the majority of the time. If you can afford it or as soon as you can afford it, please invest in building a team. Now, I'm going to go really in depth on this in the next chapter or the next section of this course here uh where we literally talk only about team. But if you have the capital, if you have the resources to do it, I encourage you to invest in this immediately.

Now, this might look like hiring freelancers in the beginning or agencies that you work with, something that's a little bit more minimal on the upfront cost and allows you to test and make sure that you're getting a positive ROI. So then you can reinvest and redeploy capital into furthering and building out your team. Now, about the team, something that I have observed is that filming content is hard for the talent. Why is it hard? Well, there's high pressure, right?

We're wondering, uh, how is this going to perform? Am I going to be able to deliver this and make a great piece of content off of it? Yeah, sure. That's the natural. But then there's also these like crazy questions that pop up.

When you're staring into the camera lens and you're saying all this you're wondering, is this actually interesting? Is it valuable? Are people going to actually learn and change their actions based on what I'm sharing? Are they enjoying this? Is this boring?

These are all natural questions that come up. And so that happens during the film session. Then oftentimes, and I'm sure if you're listening to this or watching this and you've filmed content, you're resonating with what I'm saying. You drive home. And on the drive home, you're like, "Fuck, I I could have done so much better.

That was not very good." And you're going through all of these like inner critic, like a inner critic monologue that you're having with yourself. Here's how I solve this issue. I make sure that the team that is around the film session that is around the content creation makes it easier for you, not harder for you. What do I mean? Well, I have an entire playbook on how to go about creating an environment to make your talent feel comfortable.

So, for those of you who are building your brand and trying to get a team around you, this playbook will be gold. For those of you that are the content creators behind the scenes that are trying to improve how you capture content with your talent, this will be gold. And I'm going to walk you through it just a little bit at a high level, but again, I would encourage you download it, study it, study it, study it. I believe that it is not the content creator's job to create the right environment. It's the team's job.

And so, it starts, in my opinion, with the videographer. Now, to solve the problem of you wondering if what you're saying is interesting, what you need is a videographer who gives you visual feedback as you are filming. So, what I started to notice that I just naturally would do when I was filming with talent is I would nod my head when they were saying something good. Now, as what they were saying escalated, it got better and better and better. The intensity in which I nodded my head would increase.

And it sounds funny, but every single person I've ever filmed with actually commented on this and would tell me how much it reinforced what they were saying. They knew, "Oh, okay. This is a good moment. I'm going to go deeper on this." And so what you're doing is you are giving them real time feedback because the difficulty with creating content is the feedback loop. It can be fairly quick with social media, of course, but it's still pretty extended.

We're going to film this video and this course will not drop for a minimum of 6 weeks. I mean, that is the earliest it'll drop from when we filmed it. So, I won't get any feedback from you, the audience, which is who I care about the most, for 6 weeks minimum, probably more like two months. But what I am getting is Trevor behind the camera, is nodding his head or when I say something that he thought was really good, he's putting a thumbs up and letting me know that's some good One, maybe I'm going to double down and go further on it and dive deeper, but two, I just know that what I'm saying isn't boring as This is incredibly empowering and enabling for the talent that you are working with.

It literally changes the way that they deliver their message. These are all tactics that ladder up to the principle of making a conducive environment to capture great content. Okay? So, they all all the tactics flow out of this principle. And one of them is when they're done saying something great, when you take a break, when a take is over, go up and give them a fist pound or a high five.

I've been doing it my whole career. I've been the guy behind the scenes doing it. And now I am in front of the camera in this like very like intimidating environment. And every time that we take a break, Trevor's coming up and giving me a fist pound and saying that was great and then calling out one or two things that I said that he thought really stood out. I've been doing it for years, but as somebody who is now on the receiving end of it, I can't tell you how effective this is.

It's unbelievable because one, it keeps my momentum going. I'm tired. Like we've been filming this for a long time. I'm exhausted. It literally gives me energy.

And I would see it with talent that I've worked with where I I remember I would see them their energy starting to fade and then I behind the camera would just increase my energy. Even if I was exhaust, I'd be like, "All right, I'm going to figure it out." And they match that. And so what you want is you want a team around you that is trying to make your environment or the environment you're filming in the easiest possible for you to communicate the message you have within you to your audience. The 2.0 version of this is not only are they giving you dabs, giving you praise when you're doing a good job, they are also thinking through the frame of a skeptic.

They're thinking through all of the objections that your audience is going to have when they consume the content. And just like a good video sales letter, a VSSL on your website overcomes sales objections that maybe the prospect would bring to the salesperson on the call, you're overcoming those in the video before they even get on the call. And I like to think of really welldone content as accomplishing the same thing. What we're doing after each section here is Trevor and I are sitting down and going, "Okay, what are some areas that we could like poke holes in?

What what context do we need it? What questions can we answer for you guys before you even ask it?" Because ultimately, I believe if you do that, you are going to build greater trust with the audience. You make it easier for them to trust what you are saying and then take action on it. One more tactic on this because I think it's really helpful and then the rest I'm going to leave for you to study in the playbook is once the film session is done, 15 to 20 minutes after, I always would send a message to whoever I filmed with telling them how great I thought they did.

Now, if it was a rough film session, I wouldn't lie. What I would say is, "I am so impressed with how you showed up and still pushed through despite this, this, and this." You never want to your talent because eventually they pick up on it and they realize like, okay, a compliment from so and so never is actually that helpful because they don't mean anything they say. So, you want to always be truthful about it. But the reality is is like if you've had a really hard day, like if I got an email from a partner of ours and it was really bad this morning, that would throw me off.

So maybe it wouldn't be the best video ever, but it'd be impressive that I still showed up and decided to do the action regardless. So, you always want either your team or if you're the team watching this, you want to send your talent a message telling them how well they did. And I would encourage you to call out one or two things they said. This way, they really actually know you were paying attention to what they said. It wasn't just like, "Oh, the lighting was great and all that." No, no.

The content of what was being said was valuable, insightful, and useful for myself, and I know it will be for our greater audience. This then allows them to go on to the rest of their day or into their evening feeling better about what they made. And what that does is if we believe brand is how we defined it at the beginning of this that creates a intentional pairing between relevant things them and good content and eventually they start to associate that. And so then they start to associate good feelings, excitement and positivity with film days.

A lot of people really hate film days and they really see it on their calendar as like a massive dread. They know it's necessary, but they don't want to do it. What you want is an environment that you look forward to it. When you see film day on your calendar, you want to be excited about it because it's so enjoyable because the environment is so reinforcing of what you are doing. The next one is to systematize repurposing.

Now, real quick, I want to give a big qualifier here. Repurposing content, like for example, what we talked about earlier with the waterfall method. You make a long form piece of content and then you clip micro from it. That is a great way to start. But it is 2025 and we are now at a point where all the platforms are fragmented and behave differently.

The best version of content and we'll talk about this more in a little bit but is making content contextual to the platform itself. Making it native for Tik Tok, for Instagram, for LinkedIn, for YouTube long form. And sometimes pulling clips from long form is native, right? Like a lot of podcast clips do really well. More podcast clips don't do well than podcast clips that do.

And so if you want predictive power and you and you want to be certain that the piece is going to do well, the best version is going to be making it contextual to the platform. However, if you are earlier in your efforts here, and I'm talking like first 3 years even, you're probably going to be doing more repurposing. The 2.0 0 version of this is not just clipping or extracting short form content from long form. It's actually using insights of how content has performed on one platform in one medium and using that to inform new mediums for new platforms.

Let me give you an example. There was a client that I was working with a couple years ago and she had a really powerful statement. I I can't remember off the top of my head right now. So, uh it was powerful but I can't quite remember it and I apologize. She put it out as a tweet.

That was it. We put it out as a tweet and so many people were responding to it. It was one of her top performing, like most liked tweets of all time. So many responses, so many people sharing that tweet to their stories and tagging her. And so we thought we had something here.

This is called social listening. We paid attention to what the audience was saying. They were calling this quality. They're like, "This is quality, y'all." So what did we do? We tripled, quadrupled, fiveupled, whatever that word is down on this.

And what we did is we then created a short and we had her expand on this statement. We used literally the tweet as the hook and then she explained why she came up with that quote, why she said that, what the story was, what the scenario she was going through that inspired that quote. Next, we actually created a poster of the quote and we put it up in a very cool, aesthetically pleasing environment and we took a photo of it. Like I said earlier, if you were paying attention, something that does really well, this is a tactic, not a principle, but something that does really well right now is taking a photo of a real life thing, whether it's like you're writing on a post-it note or it's a printed, you know, quote or whatever, that is doing really well on social.

So what we did is we printed the quote, took a photo of it, posted it, and it was one of, if not her top performing Instagram post of all time. So then what we did is we turned it into a longer form hashed out LinkedIn post. So we took the quote and we use that as the hook cuz it had been proven effective on Twitter. It had well now X, but it was Twitter at the time. And it had been proven effective on Instagram, on YouTube shorts, on Tik Tok.

It did well everywhere. So we're like, cool. We're not going to around with the hook. We're just going to keep it the same. So, we did that and then we had her expand on it, right?

We took a little bit of what she said in the short form clip and then we had her add or round it out, add more commentary, more color commentary to it. That performed really well. It was definitely a top three, if not her top post on LinkedIn. So then, guess what we did? We used that to inform making a YouTube long form video on this entire quote.

And so what we did is we utilized I think we did a version of the quote as the title. You know, YouTube, you kind of have to play the youtuby game. But what we did is we used that and it informed a long I think it was like a 25 30 minute video. It was probably in her top 10. I don't want to say that it was her top video.

It wasn't, but it was in the top 10. It performed really well. How incredible that we started with a tweet and what started as a tweet developed into some of the top performing content for all of her platforms. But did you notice what we didn't do is just repost the tweet everywhere. We made that tweet and remade it contextual to what the needs of the platforms were at the time.

If you're listening or watching this right now, please like rewind or I'll just say it again. Make the content contextual to the platform. Reverse engineer what the platform is telling you it wants and what its users want and make it in that way. It can be the same exact message but repackaged differently. An analogy that I love to use and I'll probably share it multiple times throughout this course is you watching this.

You are you. Okay? Wow, what a what a breakthrough statement. But you are you. But you show up to different scenarios and circumstances differently.

Let's say, for example, you're going and getting brunch with your family on Saturday. And then Saturday night, you're going to go out and meet up with the ladies and go out for cocktails. And then Monday morning, you have a business meeting. you. Let's say your name is Sarah.

Sarah is showing up to all of these different circumstances, events as Sarah. But the reality is is Sarah is going to talk about different topics and speak with a different tone and probably use different vocabulary given the different scenarios. That's not her being inauthentic. That is her revealing different parts of herself contextual to the environment she is in. Knowing her audience is what she's doing.

Well, social media is the exact same thing. All the platforms are just these different events that you're going to. So you show up as you. Sarah shows up as Sarah on LinkedIn, Tik Tok, Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, all of them. But you reveal different parts of yourself.

You emphasize different parts and you use different vocabulary because you're in a different environment. That's what it looks like to create contextual content to the platform you're on. And then lastly, I would encourage you define your energy rhythm. And this sounds like so woo woo and blah blah blah, but really what it is is it's knowing thyself, okay? It's knowing I perform best.

I have the most amount of energy and clarity of thought in the morning or I'm way better late at night. Whatever is your best time, I would encourage you to schedule your content creation around that. For me, I know that probably around midday, I start to get a little tired. So, in the morning is my best midday and then towards the end of the day I start picking back up. And so I try to plan accordingly to that.

If I were really good at night and I sucked in the morning, I was just all groggy and like clear, I wouldn't film in the mornings, right? Because not only would I not enjoy it, it wouldn't perform as well. And so just look at where you find your most optimal times, where you feel most dialed, and schedule your content sessions around that. And a subpoint to that is protect your creative and your content time just like it's an important business meeting. Something that I've seen a lot of people do is kind of depprioritize this and they move their content day around all the time.

And I understand very important if you're running a business or you know if you're an artist and you're meeting with a potential buyer for your painting or whatever. Sure, that's very important and that I would prioritize over your content creation. But I would tell you that unless you have a very mature team, more than likely what will happen over time is if you continue to reschedule and push off content days, unless they're very mature and they've been around this for a while, they're going to interpret it like it is not a priority for you.

And if it's not a priority for you, it's going to become less of a priority for them. And so the way that you show up often times will dictate unfortunately or fortunately depending on how you look at it, how your team shows up for you. Hello there. This is me interrupting this programming for a very interesting little advertisement. I just want to let you know about a email newsletter that we are putting together.

Now, this isn't going to be your traditional newsletter. It's not like a weekly or monthly cadence. We're just going to occasionally send you dope free that we think is going to actually drive massive impact for your brand and scale your content rapidly. And so, if that sounds interesting, you can go to caleb rston.com, enter your email, and we'll send you some dope goodies. All right, the next section is utilizing storytelling in your content.

Now, I don't think this is going to be any secret to anyone. Storytelling is incredibly powerful and effective. So much so that you're seeing one of the creators who is most known for maybe not utilizing as much of traditional storytelling techniques, Mr. Beast, who has been more like adrenaline go. He is even implementing far more storytelling tactics into his content.

Especially if you've watched Beast Games, you You know exactly what I'm talking about. Stories aren't just entertaining and engaging. They also change people's perspectives. They allow the individual to see maybe a similar concept or a similar circumstance that they've been dealing with from a whole new perspective. But they also keep people hooked.

I mean, attention is the greatest asset right now in today's age, right? It's what everyone is looking for. And storytelling does keep people hooked. It does retain attention. Stories also create an emotional connection between you and your audience.

They allow you to provide more depth and round out the concept or principle that you are sharing. People have a harder time remembering facts, but what they do remember is the stories that you tell them and the new perspective they were able to gain because of the story. Here is a storytelling framework that you can use in your content. But please do not operate off of this framework like it's something rigid. It is not written in concrete.

It's not in stone. This is a guide for you. You now have the rules. Feel free to break the rules. Like move things around.

Like whatever you find is working most effectively for you. Please use this in a fluid way rather than a rigid way. What we're going to go over is the hook, the problem, the journey, the lesson, and then the call to action. First, the hook. We have to get attention fast.

We are living in a world where you're competing with everything. You're competing with all the other creators, all of their friends, everyone on social media that is making content. You're also competing with the dog that's barking at them. I mean, there is so much going on in people's lives that you're competing for their attention for. And so, you have to get their attention immediately.

Depending on the platform that you're making content on, some of them you only have like a second or two to get that attention. If we're talking Instagram, Tik Tok, Facebook reels, YouTube shorts, LinkedIn video tab, any sort of short form video, you have about two or three seconds to get their attention. If you do not do that, guess what they're doing? Not consuming the rest cuz they've already scrolled five posts further down. Now, for YouTube long form, what a lot of the industry experts like to say is that 30 seconds, you have 30 seconds to capture attention.

I don't really agree with that. I think you have about 15 to 20 seconds max to capture attention. And really what they're looking for is like one, is this video actually what I clicked on, right? The the packaging, or am I getting, for those of you that remember back in the day, the Rick Rald thing, am I getting Rick rolled, right? Or is this actually what I'm looking for?

Two, is this the person that I want to listen to telling me this information? For a strong hook, I recommend starting with a very bold statement, potentially a contrarian view, something that is uh different that you see differently than your counterparts or industry experts in your field.