10 Storytelling In Your Content.

This can also be an unexpected fact, although I I do think that those are kind of getting a little tiresome at this point. But I think that no matter what, if you say something that most people believe to be true and you claim it to be false and give an alternative take, you're almost always going to catch people's attention. Here's two examples for you. Subscribers, views, likes don't matter. What actually matters is that is an example of a contrarian statement.

A lot of counterparts, a lot of the industry experts within online content creation would say the opposite of what I just said there. A lot of them are pushing for those metrics and that hook would catch attention because it is different than what the majority of other content creators are saying. Thus, it stands out. Another great example of a good hook is a pattern interrupt. So, one of the top performing clips I ever made for Gary Vaynerchuk was uh the blueberry clip.

And he literally starts it off by he's like chomping on some blueberries and he goes, "I eat blueberries like it's my job." And then the next thing he says is, "You missed the first 30 I ate." And this was like such a such a pattern interrupt for a lot of people. This was one of at the time it was his most viral clip at that time. And so basically what you want to do is you want to either provide a contrarian point of view, a pattern interrupt. You want to ask a thoughtprovoking question, something that is going to be a thumbs stopper that is going to cause them to have to watch the rest of the video because they're so interested.

Next, we have the problem. This is where you're going to set up the stakes. Here, you're going to introduce a conflict or some sort of emotional investment. And this doesn't have to be a massive conflict or anything like ultra dramatic or anything. Essentially, what you want is some sort of problem or thing that the main character has to overcome in some way, shape, or form.

Now, ideally, you want to make the problem specific and relatable. So, ideally, this is something that your audience is going to be like, well, yeah, I've gone through something similar. They're going to be able to see themselves in that problem. They maybe have recently encountered something very similar. An example might be, I was working 14 hours a day for my hero, Gary Vaynerchuk, but I still felt stuck.

This creates stakes. It shows you how much I care and that I love working for Gary and that he is my hero, but that I was in this inner turmoil of feeling stuck as an example. Next, we have the journey. This is how we overcome it, right? In the traditional like storytelling mantra, this is how the prince slays the dragon to rescue the princess.

Now, one thing to note is people resonate with progress, not perfection. And so, if you're sharing this journey, I would encourage you to not just share the highlights. Share the low lightss, right? The low points where you've made mistakes. In the example of I was working 14 hours a day for my hero Gary Vaynerchuk, but I still felt stuck.

I would then go on to tell the story of how I got unstuck through a sequence of victories and losses. Okay? It wouldn't necessarily just all be roses because that's not what life is. And people resonate and connect and relate to your struggles, I would argue, more than your successes. And I encourage you, show the messy middle.

Show where you're doubting yourself, where you're doubting the opportunity you're in. Maybe you're building a business right now and you can share how you're like unsure how this is going to actually go. Is this going to build into some big business? Is it going to be successful? Am I going to be able to provide for my family?

Or am I going to have to go back and get a real normal job, a 9 to-5? If you're a musician, maybe what you end up doing is you're putting out tracks and you're trying a new style of music. Maybe you've traditionally done more rock and roll and you're entering the country music world and you're uncertain if that audience is going to resonate with it. I think that your audience is going to resonate more with you explaining why you're trying this new thing and the fact that you're not certain of how it's going to go.

I mean, that's what I've been doing probably throughout this course. Maybe you've noticed it, but like there's been times where I'm indicating I think this is going to be a powerful project. I think this is going to affect a lot of people and I think it'll lead to a lot of good outcomes for Rston, my consulting firm. But I don't know. I have no idea.

I'm investing a lot of money, at least for me, and a lot of time and effort into this, right? Like, we've been filming all day yesterday, all day today, and we'll film again tomorrow. And like, I'm exhausted. I'm investing a lot into this and I have no idea if it's going to turn out. I think it will, but I don't know.

And I think that me sharing that, more than likely, you resonate with that. At some point in your life, you have also too had a moment where you invested a lot into a project. Maybe it was back in fifth grade when you were working on that volcano for science and it was like you put a lot into it but you didn't know if it was going to actually erupt for Mrs. Fields, right? Like I don't know.

So I really truly believe in your storytelling framework this is the key. We want to share the transparency. We want to share these moments. We want the audience to see themsself through you in some way. An example of this could be I realized I was burning out because I was trying to do everything and that's when I realized that I could do blank.

That is an example obviously very concise version of it but that is an example of giving an insight to the journey a mistake that I had made. I was trying to do everything and I realized that I was burning out. Now for the lesson this is where you make it useful for your audience. Every story that you tell is going to give them a new perspective and a shift. It's going to open them up to new possibilities and new realities.

So, this is the moment when you give them the lesson, the takeaway, the thing that they can act on. Otherwise, it's just they're being entertained. You're just telling a story, and they're like, "Oh, cool. Great story." If you give them the lesson, the takeaway, and you make it easy for them to take action on that by giving them step-by-step instructions, chunking it down, making it as easy as possible for them to change what they do. Then, what you're doing is you are providing value to your audience.

Cuz ultimately when people say provide value, that's all providing value is something that is useful, something that the audience can take and immediately put into action. That is what valuable content within the education space is. Now, an example of how I might transition to this is here's what I learned from that season of my career and here are three ways that you can apply these learnings in your career so that you avoid the mistakes that I made. Ideally, what you want to do is tie this lesson back into what your expertise is and really ideally back into what your offer is.

Because ultimately, we are trying to either build our business, build our craft, build our art, whatever it is that we are offering the world, we want to make people aware of that. And so, every time that we can tie our lessons, our stories back to that, the better. And lastly, we have the CTA or the call to action. Now, immediately when I say that, 99% of you immediately thought it was something like, "Now, if you want to learn more about things like this, go to my website and buy my offer or pay for my course or whatever shit." That's not necessarily the case.

A call to action just literally means telling people to take action. It doesn't mean that you have to sell them something. I would argue that your best content is not going to be pushing and selling If anything, the 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 0 version of this once you have bigger budgets is you just retarget those individuals who paid. That's a totally another video. We'll do that one other day.

The call to action can be a very simple thing of comment below on what your biggest takeaway was and how you're going to apply it to your life moving forward. That can be a very simple call to action. It drives engagement. It causes the viewer to think and actually probably identify what they are going to actually do and then increases the likelihood that they will change their actions. So, an example of this is if you're struggling with trying to do everything yourself and burning out, try delegating and training your team.

Please, what I would love to hear from you, comment below, tell me which of these tactics you're going to use in training your team and delegating some of the tasks that you currently have on your plate so that you no longer are the one trying to do everything so you don't burn out. Now, ultimately, what this does is it bridges the gap between engagement and viewership and actually taking action. And that's the ultimate goal of educational content. Now, we have two more sections here on story. And then right after that, I am going to go very in-depth on what I believe educational content is, what its purpose is, and how you should go about making it.

But first, we're going to dive a little bit deeper into more around storytelling, which brings us to the best types of stories to tell. Not all stories work equally as well in content. The best ones fall into these categories. The first one is origin stories. Uh people love this one.

Now, if you start your journey of making content and you do this for several years, I promise you, you're going to get bored of your origin story and you're going to get to the point where you start telling your content team, "Stop cutting that. Stop including that." Do not do that. You need to treat your content like you're always trying to reach a cold audience because that's what you're trying to do. And guess what's so unique about a cold audience? They don't know your origin story.

Origin stories are what people resonate with, in my opinion, the most. It's how you got to where you are. It's the thing that you're going to tell that is going to be the most relatable for the audience watching. The thing that's not relatable is where you're at right now. Let's say you're a very successful businesswoman and you've built a massive business and you have, you know, your $500 million net worth.

You're huge. You're on the cover of Forbes, all this crazy That is not relatable. But how you went from being a barista at Starbucks, barely making ends meet, all the way to that point, that is what we, the audience, are going to resonate with. So really, please lean into your origin story. This tells the audience why you are doing what you're doing.

Okay? This gives us the understanding, right? This is the Peter Parker getting bit by the spider. This is Batman encountering the terrible situation with his parents. This also gives insight to pivotal moments that shaped your career and shaped who you are as a person.

We are a collective of everything that has happened in our life up to this point. And if you don't share that with your audience, they're not going to truly understand why you do what you do, why you say things the way you say them, why you act the way you act. So this is me right now committing to you guys. I am going to continue to dive deeper and deeper over the next year into my origin story, into why I operate and think the way that I think. For example, we talked about how we shape the environment for filming.

There are a lot of things that occurred in my life leading up to working on set that allowed me to have a completely different perspective and insight into how to make talent feel comfortable. Another example is the first video that we put out on YouTube talking about my career journey, right? I literally tell you in that video how at 15 years old, Sean Kel gave me the book Crush It by Gary Vaynerchuk. I read it and forever changed how I viewed my career. I all of a sudden realized I could do video content.

And so it gives you insight to so many different things. why I chose this career path, how I've navigated it, why I've overemphasized social media even at the time when the majority of marketers and my counterparts were talking about how it was a fad. You also gain insight on probably why I referenced Gary so much throughout this course in a lot of different speeches and podcasts that I do because Gary has had such a huge impact on my life. But if you didn't know the fact that I read his book when I was 15 years old in high school and decided to completely change the trajectory and course of my life, you'd be like, "Wow, this guy references Gary a lot.

It's kind of interesting. It's kind of weird. Why does he like Gary so much?" And this gives insight as to why. The next one that people really relate to is failure stories. I think most humans have one thing in common, which is we fail.

By telling failure stories, what you do is you become relatable to your audience and you build more trust with them. People trust vulnerability more than they trust success. They trust failure more than they trust wins. If you do tell these stories, don't only talk about what went wrong. Don't make it just a sob story.

You hopefully gained lessons and insights from that failure, from that loss, from those mistakes. And what you can do is not only did you learn from it, but you can help others learn from it and avoid having to make the investment of time, money, whatever that you did and lost in your mistake. And so ultimately you are servicing your audience or providing value, usefulness, so that they can then make different decisions and avoid that pitfall altogether. For example, referencing the career video again because at the time of recording this, it's the only video that I've put out on YouTube.

I share the story of how I thought I was a hot shot, big shot. I signed two I502 legal cannabis companies in Washington state and I had tripled my income and I was like, I was the big man. I was hot And then that same client cut my monthly compensation in half and I had to go fire three friends that I had hired. Again, Mr. big shot immediately brought down to low very very disappointed little Caleb.

It was brutal. And I shared that story. But not only did I share the story, I shared what I learned and how I will never make that mistake again. And what I tried to do is articulate in a very clear way how you, the viewer, can avoid the same mistake in your craft, in your career, in your business. Now, as much as I think sharing the losses and the failure stories are very important, it's also extremely important to emphasize your success stories.

Otherwise, people will just think that you are a failure constantly learning. And that's not what we want. We want to actually create the association between you and the success that you have had. More on that in a little bit. But what you want to do is show before and after transformations.

Okay? So ideally, these success stories end up being the proof that validates that you are the right person to be listening to on this subject matter. And when you validate that you are the right person to listen to on the subject matter, what you're doing is increasing trust in the viewer. And if you increase trust in the viewer, a lot of magical things happen. And if you start to highlight small wins that became big results, this starts to build on your credibility.

For example, I like to reference as often as possible how I worked with Gary to grow his Tik Tok from 300,000 followers to 3.5 million in just 3 months. And by doing this, I am providing you with credibility or proof that what I'm about to say is valid because I have had success in this realm. Another one is customer and client success. This is more proof that not only can you execute something for yourself, but you can do it for others. you can replicate this success.

And if you can replicate this success, then why would you, the viewer, not believe that you could do the same thing? This is another moment where you get to let the audience see themselves in your content. Ideally, they see themselves in your success story and then they go and take action and get that same success. An example would be I met with an agency owner about 2 years ago. They were asking me, "How do I get more out of my editors?

How do I get them to be better and up to speed?" And I shared with him a very very simple tactic and it comes from the principle of let them know what you like so they do more of it. And what I told him is I said instead of only leaving comments on frame of all the things that you want your editor to do differently, spend at least the same amount of time leaving comments on reinforcing what you want them to continue doing. Because editors, if you only get notes on what you should change, well, you don't know if the client liked what you did on, you know, minute 1313.

And so then they have to spend energy on the next edit wondering, should I continue doing subtitles that way? Should I still do transitions in the same way? They don't know. And they have to expend effort in guessing what you liked. So call it what you like equally, if not more than what you want changed.

And he texted me about a year after that and told me it was the greatest insight that he had ever heard in training a team. And his output and quality, and by quality, I mean the performance of the content increased and went better for his clients. And his client retention increased because one of the common problems that a lot of agencies experience is high client churn due to poor editors. Well, this changed how he trained his editors and it changed his agency forever. There's an example of me sharing a client success story.

The final one that I'm going to share with you is industry stories. Now, I like to take a contrarian view to this because what you don't want to do is just be another person that's agreeing with everybody else and regurgitating all the same So, if you have the same opinion as other people, ah, I mean, yeah, sure, make the content, put your opinion out there, but I don't think that you're going to find that is as effective at catching attention and sparking conversation. And so what I would encourage you to do is look at what the people in your industry are talking about.

And when you have a differing opinion, put it out respectfully, of course. Don't be talking and naming names and stuff, but share the industry trope that everybody touts as gospel. And then share your contrary belief or your view on it. An example here is maybe you call out the fact that a lot of people are encouraging content creators to make heavy calls to action for their offer in their organic content. And maybe you believe differently like I do.

Maybe you start the video off by saying never tell your audience about your offer in your organic content. And then you expand on it. This is going to take a very typical trope that a lot of people are touting in my industry and flip it on its head. It's going to catch attention and provide a slightly unique perspective that most people have not heard. Now, this next section is purely about educational content.

So, for anybody who is making entertainment, this might not be as useful. But for those of you who are making educational content, this is going to be possibly the most critical next few minutes of this entire course. This is the purpose of educational content. If you and I agree on the same definition of branding and brand. Branding is the pairing of things.

And good branding is an intentional pairing of relevant things consistently which then creates the byproduct which is brand which is when the audience inherently associates the two things. Then cool, we're on the same page. And what I'm about to describe will make a lot of sense. In educational content, what you want to do is you want to share success stories. What ends up happening when you intentionally pair yourself with the relevant thing, success stories, you and success stories, is over time the audience begins to associate you with success.

Now, what happens there is not the magic sauce, okay? That's not the epic because what that causes is trust. trust in what you say. So that's amazing, but that's not the final byproduct that we're looking for. When they trust what you have to say, now they start to hear the lessons and takeaways that you share.

When they trust those lessons and takeaways that you share, they then start to take action. This is when the gold starts. When they start taking action, they start to get the results that they want. They get their desired outcome. They see that success that they were hearing about in your client stories for themsel.

When this happens consistently, what begins to happen is the audience doesn't associate you with success stories. The audience begins to associate you with their success. This is powerful because what ends up happening is they realize whether it's conscious or subconscious that they always get more than what they invest with you because all they had to do was invest their time to consume and then their time to take action. Now, sometimes you're going to be telling them something that's going to also cost money.

Maybe it's running paid ads. So yeah, they have to invest money in it. But I guarantee if they get the success outcome, it is greater than the investment they made. And so what you're doing is you are teaching your audience that what they invest with you always leads to greater outcomes. And this is the brand that you start to build with your audience.

And guess what happens all of a sudden? When you make your audience aware of the offer you have, they believe, they trust that what they will invest in this offer is very little in comparison to what they're going to get as the outcome. I can't tell you how many different people I've worked with where we have done this at scale. There was one company that I worked with and we were putting out a lot of educational content, specifically long- form content on LinkedIn and YouTube. This company started conducting in-person seminars.

I remember I would every once in a while try to attend them and and bounce around and mingle with the guests. And the question that I would always ask them is, "Hey, what what was the the conversation with the salesperson like? What was the point of sale like?" And they would almost all say the exact same thing. I literally told the salesperson, "Shut the up and take my credit card." Because through the free content you put out, I knew that whatever you're going to charge for was worth far more than what I had invested.

So if I'm paying $1,000 to go to the seminar, I know I'm going to get at a minimum $10,000 worth of value. But actually, the way that we created content, they were getting like 50 to 100x the value of their investment. Ultimately, educational content is just scaling trust. And when you scale trust, doors that you could never imagine fleeing wide open for you. Opportunities start knocking at your door like you could never imagine.

People come into your life that you never would have thought would have any interest in you. And the profit that you are able to make on your offer or for your company goes through the roof. Again, educational content, I believe, is ultimately just scaling trust. and trust makes everything in business and life easier. Now, we're on to having your community drive your content.

I would encourage you, please involve your audience in what you are creating. I'm going to give you an immediate example of this actually that happened literally last night. We're here filming this content and uh an individual who is here that works at this studio, he also makes music. And we were talking about just different ways to involve and get more engagement from his audience. And one of the things that we were talking about is a lot of musicians, they have, you know, multiple different versions of a verse for a track, as an example, that they're working on.

Or they might have a guitar lick that they're working on, and they have a couple of different ideas or versions that they're working on. This applies, by the way, to like filmmakers, to authors, like literally any medium that you're making. And I told him, well, a very simple way to engage your audience and to get them to feel very bought in to this single or an album, but let's call it a single for now that you're releasing is to upload maybe to your Instagram or whatever platform you prefer, the two different options.

So, let's say you have two different versions of a verse that you're going to run in a track that you're releasing. You upload both of them and you allow your audience to tell you which one they like the most. Guess what? They're going to be invested. How cool, right?

And if you're an author, you can do the same thing. You might have two different versions of a chapter. Sure. You might have two different versions of the title of the book. There's so many different things that you can do here.

But if you involve your audience, one, you're making content or you're making something that you know they're going to want because they have told you they want it. But also, they are so much more bought in. They're going to be your advocates. They're going to go out and be your missionaries telling other people about what you produced because they were part of the process. The mindset shift here is shifting from creator first to community first.

If you make everything about them and serving them and bringing them into your world, bringing them into your content creation, it's a totally different ballgame. It's no longer just a one-way talking at them. It's talking with them. Next is you want to create a feedback loop or feedback loops. This is where you listen and adapt.

Listen and iterate. This is where the magic is. This is when literally people think that you're reading their mind. I believe the best content ideas actually come directly from your audience because you're making content to serve your audience. Let them indicate to you what they want more of.

Now, I do not necessarily believe that what this looks like is posting a poll being like, "What do you want to hear from me?" I like that for like Q&A format, but I actually don't think that that is the best way because they don't know what they want. Let's just be honest. They they don't know what they need. But what they do is they will send you DMs or they'll comment questions. That's where you want to see the insights.

So I I find when people make polls asking their audience, what should I make next? I'm not nearly as much of a fan of that. I think that that is way too blue ocean and doesn't provide any sort of constraints for them to make the decision within. However, the questions in your DMs, the questions in your comment section, that is insight on what your community is wanting more of from you. An incredible example of this, like I kind of said at the top of this section, is Gary spends an incredible amount of his time doing what we refer to as social listening.