11 Community Driven Content.

He is looking at tweet replies. He is looking at Instagram DMs. He is looking at comments on his content and he is taking all of that in and synthesizing it. What he does is he starts to notice that maybe five people today asked him the same question or a very similar version of a question. And what Gary does so well is he immediately acts on that and creates content answering that question.

Now what he doesn't do is say, "Man, so many people have been asking me about blank." He immediately jumps into it and addresses the problem or question that he is receiving from his audience. And then this crazy thing happens. People comment on his post being like, "How did you know I needed this right now, Gary? You're somehow reading my mind." And it's almost like he is reading their mind because what he's doing is recognizing if five people in the last 3 hours ask me a very similar question, there are thousands of people that for whatever reason, whatever woo woo magic in the universe, they're experiencing that right now.

And they need that insight right now. And so if you do this, if you pay attention to what your community is saying and the feedback they're giving you, you can be making content that is literally speaking to them in their exact moment right now, aka reading their mind. Another thing that you can do is you can make your audience the hero of the story. By doing this, you encourage them to want to take action on what you're sharing, get the success, and then become one of those success stories. So what this looks like is sharing community wins, transformations, and case studies.

If you have a weekly call that you do on Zoom for free for people in your audience and you're telling them or sharing information with them or sharing some new direction or something that they can do and they take action on it and it changes their life, you should be sharing that on social. Don't just keep it for the community. share that publicly because what that will do is one, it will incentivize current members of your community to take action and win so that maybe they can be a success story, but two, it will cause people who are on the outside that are a little bit more skeptical to be less skeptical and trust you more.

An incredible example of this is if you receive a DM from somebody in your community, somebody that's in your audience, and they've gained success. they tried something, they put into action something that you told them, a lesson, a takeaway, and they got the result that they were looking for. What you could do is you could turn that into content. Maybe what you do is you do a an Instagram video call with them, record it, and then you put that piece of content out there. Now, no, this is not going to be your top performing content by any means.

Anything like this, you're not going to see massive engagement on. You're not going to see a ton of views, likes, or anything like that. But what you will see is it will encourage future people to engage with your content and send you their success stories, how they have won based on what you have shared. And lastly, leverage user generated content. UC is kind of the acronym that almost everybody in the industry uses and so that's probably what you're more familiar with.

I would encourage your audience to create with you. And so what this can look like is potentially you put out a prompt encouraging your audience to share an insight or story based on the lessons and advice that you share in your content. Then what you do is you take those videos that they have posted. Maybe it's to Tik Tok, Instagram reels, and you can stitch them. You can actually create content off the back of your audience's content that they are already creating.

What this will do is create a perpetual cycle of engagement. This empowers your audience to want to one create content with you, but also to promote you to their audience. And no audience is too small. Like even people that have 300 followers, I want them informing their 300 followers about my brand. Now, I believe that there are three pillars to community content.

And my hope is in sharing this, this just allows you to come up with more ideas within these three different pillars. First one is educational content. This is when we're teaching our community. We help the community by solving their biggest problems. The next one is conversational content.

The goal or purpose of this is to engage the audience. You want to make your audience feel heard and involved in your content. Again, we don't want this to just be a one-way relationship. We want it to go both ways. And number three, social proof content.

This is where, like we talked about earlier, you can showcase community wins as an example. You want to be highlighting real stories from your community and how what you're putting out there is driving impact in your community. So, we've gone over the value of building a community and having the community drive your content, but how do you turn viewers into community members? Well, first off, you're going to want to make engagement the goal, not just views. So, the way you do that is you create content that invites them to participate.

This might be as simple as literally just asking your community to drop a fire emoji in the comments if they found this clip useful. This could also go so far as to literally ask them to debate in the comments. So, what you could do is you could share a controversial take on something. Again, not controversy for controversial sake, but something that is counter what the industry norm is. You could share that and then your call to action could be literally telling your audience, debate whether or not you agree with this in the comments below.

Or you could go even crazier and say, "I would love to know your two cents on this. I'm going to be engaging with some of you and going back and forth. We can debate it in the comments." Drive engagement in your content. And second, please respond and reward participation. People ask me, "How do I increase engagement in my content?" The number one thing that I notice for most of the people that ask this question is the three people that are currently commenting on their content, they're not responding to.

So like why on earth would you think more people are going to start engaging with your content if you're not even responding to the ones who are? What you want to do is set an example for future people, future audience members, somebody who's new that comes in. If they see that you are more likely to respond to comments, they are more likely to comment. Go figure. People don't like one-way conversations.

They love when creators, even big creators especially, are responding to their comments. What you're doing is you're not only acknowledging the people that are engaging and thanking them for that, but again, you're giving signals to other audience members that they can go from becoming a viewer to an actual community member. And the last one, I'm I'm a huge fan of this. I love to create inside jokes and shared language. I believe that really strong communities have very unique terminology and shared language that they all understand and outsiders do not.

Think of any niche, any interest that you have. Deep within that community exists a lot of different sayings that maybe your friends and family do not understand. For example, gym bros have bulking season and the Harley community has all their jokes about sportster riders. So, when you're thinking about your community and your niche, what's the inside joke? Whether it's leveraging one that already exists and implementing it in your content so that you show people that you are an insider, you get the inside jokes, you understand the lingo, you speak their language, or it might be creating your own.

There's so many different creators who have their own little sayings that people outside of the community don't understand. The takeaway is either leverage inside jokes and statements and language that you know already exists within your community and niche or create your own. And now we've reached the point in the course where we are going to talk about scaling your content. We've established how to pick your medium, how to pick your preferred platforms, everything, right? We've given you a lot of different frameworks and you've been consistently posting.

You're involving your audience. You're doing all the right things. And now we're at the point where we want to scale the out of this thing, right? We want to amplify your brand at a whole another level. More content equals more opportunities to engage, more opportunities to attract, and more opportunities to convert.

But here's the thing, scaling does not need to equate to burning out or quitting early, right? We want to build a process and system that is sustainable and works for you. Now, the key to making platform specific content is actually recalling something that I shared with you earlier, which is the analogy of you are you and you show up to multiple different circumstances, events, situations as you, but you're going to present yourself slightly different given the context or the environment that you are in.

You're going to speak to different topics or use different vocabulary. Let's say I'm going out to go riding with the boys, right? I am going to talk in a slightly different way than when I go and get breakfast with my mom. I am still me, but I'm going to emphasize different parts of me and use different vocabulary that is appropriate for the setting that I am in. I view social media and the different platforms the same way.

You are your brand, but you're going to show up and emphasize different parts or elements of your brand given the platform you're on. You're also going to use different lingo and language. you're going to talk way differently on LinkedIn than you are on Tik Tok. Now, what you've probably been doing up to this point is making content and then deploying it to all the platforms. So, let's say, for example, you made a YouTube long- form video.

You're probably mining and pulling shorts from that and then posting those shorts on all the different platforms. And that was a great start. That caused you to be able to scale your brand to a certain point. But right now, you're probably hitting a ceiling. And the way to smash through that ceiling is to now start making those same clips but have a different creator tackle it given their knowledge and context on the platform they're distributing it to.

So what does this look like? Well, one, it looks massively inefficient because what you're going to do is you're going to provide the same source media to maybe five different editors and they're all going to cut it slightly differently to make it contextual to Tik Tok versus Instagram versus LinkedIn video because all three of those platforms might require a completely different hook. Now, what you might find is that the meat of the video stays roughly the same, but the entry point into the meat of the video, the hook might be different because people are looking for different things or solving different problems on LinkedIn versus Tik Tok.

Just because you've been doing it one way doesn't mean that that is how you continue. Often times, the way you got to one point is not the way you're going to get to the next point. And so the solution here is to take your team and the creators that you have on your team and reverse engineer their specific skill sets and interests and assign them the platform that lines up with their strengths and interests.