12 Scale Your Content.

Cuz what you want is you want them to be living, eating, and breathing this platform. I remember when Gary assigned TikTok to me and we were at 300,000 followers and literally what he had me do is the first week I didn't make any content for it. I sat eight hours a day for a whole week straight just scrolling through Tik Tok. That is like doom scrolling on another level except I was actually taking note and learning what people were doing on the platform that worked. And what I was trying to do is extract the insights that could be applied to Gary's content.

So at the beginning of this section, what we did is we outlined prioritizing two or three platforms. But now we're probably at the point where, yeah, you still are prioritizing, let's say, those three platforms, but you're probably redistributing the content on another three. So, what you're going to do is you're going to take your top three platforms and your bottom three platforms, and you're going to assign those out to your team cuz more than likely, you don't have like 10 people on your team.

You might have three editors that you can assign to these platforms. So, what you do is you give your best editor, your number one platform, and your number four platform, and so on and so forth. Your second best editor gets platform number two and platform number five. Okay? And then again, the third gets number three and number six.

And so what we're going to do is we're going to tell them to spend 85% of their time, effort, and energy making platform native content for their top priority platform. And then they're going to spend the remaining 15% trying to experiment with platform native content for their second priority platform. Notice that is a huge discrepancy. 85% and 15%. Because we have identified that these three platforms, your top three, are what are actually driving the economics of your business.

They're driving awareness to your art. They're driving awareness to your offer. And so that is where we're going to put all of our effort. So here's an example of how this is actually ran. Let's say Angela is our best editor.

Okay? So we assign Instagram to Angela. Angela is going to spend 85% of her time during the week creating Instagram native content. She's literally making content specifically and only with Instagram in mind. Now, could this be redistributed to other platforms?

Of course, absolutely. But you want her thinking through the mindset of the Instagram audience that you have. And then she's going to spend the remaining 15%. Let's say Tik Tok we identify as number four. Okay, cool.

15% of her time is going towards making platform native content for Tik Tok. What this probably will end up looking like is maybe creating seven original pieces of content for Instagram a week and maybe one or two for Tik Tok. And that's fine. Again, what we're doing is we're taking the Eye of Sauron approach that I mentioned earlier and we're delegating that out to the team now. So, it's not just you or the head of your content team doing that.

You're actually giving the power to your individual contributors on the team to do the same. They're prioritizing the platform that drives the most results and then they are testing and around with the secondary platform because as we know social evolves, things change and we never know if Tik Tok is all of a sudden going to jump in priority. On one of the teams that I built, we had gotten to a point where we had already optimized quite a bit on the platforms. But when we made this change, an already massive massive output team that was getting billions of impressions every year, we were able to see a 1.5x return.

Now, that might not sound like that special. Everyone talks about 2x, 10xing, 100xing, but what you got to realize is when you are at the top. 0.1% of content creators, a 1.5x increase is massive. A great analogy for this, if you know uh powerlifting in any way, shape, or form, when you are early in the days and you first start lifting, you can be doubling your lifts every couple of months, but then once you get to a point where you're like maybe squatting 6 or 700 lb, uh you're not going to be doubling that, right?

If you get a 5% increase in your lift, that might be the difference between a standard lift and a world record. Now, why is this actually effective? I think I've given a fairly good argument for it. But in case you're still on the edge and still don't totally feel like you've been convinced, here's a couple reasons. This allows for each of your creators to have more focus.

Instead of spreading them thin and having them make what I would call vanilla content, something that you're making and hoping will work on all the platforms, they don't give a about the other platforms. They are focusing the majority of their efforts on one primary platform. And what is so beautiful about this is not only do they learn what the audience wants, they become very closely tied to the actual performance of the content. When you're a shorts editor and you make a clip, it is very difficult to continue making clips and track the performance of that short across five to 10 different platforms.

But if you own one channel, you actually are able to keep way better track of the performance and the creators end up being held more accountable. They understand how the clip is actually performing. This is the beautiful marriage of creative and data. And what you want is you actually traditional creative has data and strategy in a completely different house than creative. That is like the traditional agency model.

What you want is you want them to be as close as possible. the further they are away, the less that the data is actually informing the creative and then we're just making subjective calls rather than informing our decisions off of what the audience has told us they want more of. Another reason why this works is this will actually lead to greater retention with your team. Why? Because they're starting to see greater success with their content.

It's a very powerful reinforcement loop. They make the content, they see how it performs, it does better. Amazing. They take the insights from that and that informs the next creative they make and it creates this incredible flywheel that is unstoppable. The other thing that this will end up doing is it actually incentivizes your audience to follow you on multiple platforms because you're not posting the same at the same time.

You're actually posting different content at different times. And so if I look at your brand on Instagram and then 5 minutes later go to LinkedIn and your post is at the top, it's not the same Anytime that you're posting the same content at the same time to all the different platforms, you deincentivize your audience to follow you on all these platforms. Why would they do it? They they have no reason to. I just need to follow you on Instagram and I'll get everything that you put out.

Versus, if you're making individual content per platform, well, then I am very incentivized to follow you everywhere because I'm going to gain different insights and different perspectives depending on what platform I'm on. The other added benefit is you create a team of strategists, not just creatives. They start to learn how to think strategically. And what you're actually doing is you're training future leaders of your team. A lot of editors are maybe a little bit more on the meek side and not as willing to share strong opinions because maybe they don't feel they have the data to back it up.

Well, this puts the data in their front lap. This makes it so available for them and they start thinking differently. And what you'll find is two, three, couple of individuals on your team are going to rise above and shine. And you're going to see that they have more skills than just being a creator. And what you might find is that this individual is able to be in a leadership role on your team in the future.

This provides them the opportunity to see that that is a potential for their career. Whereas before, they may have always thought they were an editor. I can't even tell you how many different editors that I've led that once we did this, they were like, "Oh my goodness, I always thought I was just going to be an editor." And now I see like maybe I want to be a a strategy lead or I want to be a creative director. And it opens up this whole other opportunity, which is amazing for them and provides value to them and their career, but it also is extremely valuable to you because what you want as you scale is to have leaders that understand your brand and ideally have been there for a long time, right?

Consistency is a powerful thing with your team. Now, the next question you might be wondering is, okay, how do I determine who gets what platform? How do I evaluate the creators on my team and what platform they should own? A very basic version of this is just look at how they operate and how they communicate. Does the creator match the tone of the platform?

For example, on Tik Tok, do they understand current humor and current trends that are existing? Right? Tik Tok for more than I think any other platform has like their own language that they speak. Maybe this is me being a millennial and just getting old now and maybe it's not just Tik Tok, but you want somebody who understands that and is up todate with culture and what people are saying so that they can participate in a way that is relevant to the users on that platform. Another example is LinkedIn.

Do they have a deep understanding of the subject matter that you are speaking to? oftentimes you're going to want somebody specifically on this platform that actually understands the message and the content that you are putting out. If they are just repurposing what you put out from other platforms, that's decent. But if they actually have a deep understanding, they're going to pull more out of you that is what the audience on that platform is actually seeking. And for YouTube, honestly, my measurement on YouTube is does somebody consume a shitload of YouTube content?

I truly believe that if they're living on YouTube, they love and are deeply following a couple of different YouTubers. They're going to understand the best practices and what is working, but also they're going to see the evolutions that are occurring in real time and be able to take those learnings and apply it to the content you're making. What you don't want is somebody who only consumes Netflix and Instagram editing your YouTube content. You want somebody who is deep in the weeds of the YouTube community and understands what people are doing there and what the audience is preferring.

For example, you want an editor who is noticing that vlogs are having a sudden resurgence over the last year. There's more people making vlog content. Now, those vlogs look very different than they did about 5 or 6 years ago. And so you want somebody who's noticing that emerging trend and can act on it without using their preconceived notions or what used to work in 2014 or 2015 when vlogging was really big. You want them to understand the nuance and the difference between what a 2015 vlog looked like and a 2025 vlog on YouTube looks like.

So we've evaluated the creators for the platform. Amazing. Now, what we need to do is make sure that we have a great data tracking system in place so that the creators can know if what they're making is working or if it's not. And even more than that, so that you can know if what they're making is working or not. Something that I've observed with a lot of different teams is that we say things like, "This video got 400k views," or "This video got 10,000 likes." and people celebrate, but we don't really know what that means.

Because what we don't know is what the average is and how this is either underperforming from the average or overperforming from the average. In the very beginning, when it's a small, nimble team, everyone knows what the averages are, okay? And so, everyone knows like, wo, if we got 100,000 views on this, that's crazy. That's way more than we normally get. But eventually you get to a point where you're putting out so much and you have so many different platforms and you have multiple different creators that you no longer really know what your team means or what people on your team mean when they're saying we got 100k views.

And so what we want to establish is benchmarks and then we want to report against those benchmarks. And so the way I like to do this is I like to create what we call a multiplier sheet. I am not a software developer, so I haven't put together some like software tool for this, but we do this in Google Sheets. And it's very simple. In the beginning, what you're going to get is what I like to call directionally correct, not scientifically accurate, but again, it's directionally correct.

It's going to move us in the right direction. What you're going to do is you're going to review the last 75 to 90 days of your content. And this is per platform. So, let's pick Instagram, for example. You're going to go back and review the last 75 days of content on your Instagram channel and I want you to pull the median.

Okay? So, we're going for averages. Use the median, not the mean. Some teams can do and get away with the mean, but a lot of you probably have some posts that are massive outliers and this will tip the scales and make all of your content look like it's underperforming and not allow you to have a proper benchmark to establish or grade yourself against. And so what you're going to do is you're going to grab the median of the last 75 days.

And I would encourage you to do this for different formats, right? So do this for reals, do this for carousels, you can do this for uh static posts if you do that. You could do it as as an average across all of it, but it gets way more scientific if you break it down according to the medium that you're tracking. And so what you're going to do is you're going to establish what that median is for the last 75 days. That is now your benchmark.

Moving forward, you're going to report performance of individual pieces against that benchmark using a multiplier. So, let's say, for example, your average is 100,000 views on Instagram reels. After you have established that, your first post up gets 150,000 views. That would be a 1.5x multiplier. What this does is it gets the entire team on the same page.

We're all speaking the same language. we're seeing it from the same handbook. Instead of saying, "Oh, this got 150,000 views." No, it's this was a 1.5x. This was a great clip. It did really well.

The benefit of this is you track this over time and you start to see what topics, what formats don't perform as well. It becomes very clear, like unbelievably clear for you to see. And what you can have your team do is start focusing on making more of the that works and less of the that doesn't. Now, a technical note for you is I would recommend for most platforms waiting 11 days after you post it before you report on the performance. Sometimes what you'll find is uh a piece of content might, you know, do decent for the first 2 or 3 days, but then eventually it actually pops.

Something that's happening a lot more on social is content does well for a few days and then maybe like 7 days in it'll pop. And so you want to give it enough time to experience the life cycle of the platform. The other beauty of this is if you share these sheets across the team, the person who is running your Tik Tok can start to see things that are performing really well on Instagram. Let's say you have a 3x clip that went up on Instagram. I think that would be very interesting for the person who's running Tik Tok to test it on Tik Tok.

And what you can start to do is calibrate the crossover performance between platforms because again this makes it far easier for you to know what success looks like rather than saying well this clip got 150k views on Instagram and it did really well and then we posted it on Tik Tok and it only got 50K. Well maybe your average on Tik Tok is 10,000 views in which case it was a 5x multiplier. And so when we use the same nomenclature, the same language, we are all on the same page and we can start to make more educated decisions.

Now, what I said at the top is that this isn't scientifically accurate. It's more directionally correct. And the reason why is because you just pulled the last 75 days and some of those posts have been up for 75 days. And so it's not the same amount of time that you're reporting on. So what you're going to find is it's going to take a little bit of time to establish a scientific benchmark.

Use it though. This will help you go in the right direction. What you should be doing is every month, make sure that you update what your benchmark is. This way, you're always measuring against the new median rather than a median that may have happened 6 months ago. This allows you to continue raising the bar and instead of you artificially coming in and saying, "All right, the new benchmark is we have to hit 500k views all the time." No, your benchmark is moving up according to how your content is performing.

And one thing to call out is uh I wouldn't recommend doing this for YouTube necessarily because there are actually tools out there that already do this. There's one of 10.com, there's view stats, and I'm sure there's millions of others that will pop up over the next couple of months. But as of right now, I am not aware of any tool that does this automatically for your Instagram, Tik Tok, etc. So, typically what you'll find is you have to do it manually for short form platforms and then your YouTube you can utilize these tools that do it automatically for you.

It's an extremely extremely powerful tool. And on the topic of data, I would recommend that you make this part of the culture of your team. You want to ensure that everybody is viewing data as their god. This is how they make decisions. This is the framework that they operate under.

It's not us coming up with subjective creative ideas. I would allow, as a side note, a little bit of room for that, right? like maybe 10% of your content is just new ideas that the team is coming up with, but 90% of it should be backed by data. And so I would emphasize in your hiring process to ensure that you are bringing people onto the team that actually place an emphasis on data. And you can take this even a step further by actually hiring somebody who maybe not their full-time job, but a main part of their job and a main part of their experience coming into the job is tracking, analyzing, and then disseminating the information and the takeaways they acquire from reviewing the data.

I remember uh on my last team, there was an individual that we brought onto the team and he completely changed how he viewed data. I I'm talking it was a complete game changer. all of a sudden everybody on the team started actually carrying and tracking the data of the platform they were owning. And so the moment he came in, we had a huge shift in the culture. So I would highly recommend if you currently have a team and nobody on your team is a data nerd, that's what you want.

Go for the data nerd. They are going to accelerate the rate at which you grow and scale your content. A little pro tip for you is it's not a boulder that builds a building. It's brick by brick. And so I would encourage you to make a list of the bricks that you have noticed lead to better content outcomes.

And what you can end up doing is having a massive internal playbook that is specific to your content and your team. Your brickby brick list won't necessarily look the same as any other teams. So, as much as I would love to say download our brick-by- brick list, it's actually far more contextual to the type of content, the niche you're in, and the platforms you're choosing to deploy your content on. But I would really encourage you instead of just being like, "Oh, that's cool." and hoping that you remember it, actually build a list of your bricks with your team.

And then this becomes a training tool when you onboard new editors to maintain that level of excellence and level of performance. And you know what? it. Let's throw in one more pro tip because I think this is really powerful. Something I learned in the last two years that was a real gamecher for me is if it doesn't change your actions, don't track it.

The amount of teams that I've met with that have these massive analytic tools that are tracking every single kind of metric you could imagine. I mean, there's so many of those, right? I mean, that's pretty much every team. You probably have somebody on your team that has some sort of crazy analytics tool that they're tracking every single little metric that you can imagine. But here's the thing.

How much of that is actually going to change what the team does? And if it doesn't change what the team does, why are we tracking it? What benefit does it have? If anything, what it does is it gives information overload and makes it much more difficult to know what decisions to make off of the data because you don't know what you're looking at. you have a million different things that you're tracking rather than tracking two to four metrics that actually indicate what you should do next.

And the next one, and this is going to sound a little aggressive, but I I like to say some things uh that are a little bit more polarizing every once in a while. the social media manager. We don't need that. The people that you just assigned those platforms to should be the ones that are managing the platform. They're doing the posting.

They're going to gain far more insights. They're going to be tied to the data like we've talked about and they're going to understand in real time how the content they're creating is performing. Now, a couple of different little pro tips for you on how you can go about making your content in an efficient manner that allows you to do this for a long time. Cuz like we've talked about throughout this course, this is only effective if we stick with it. Build a content machine.

Okay? Instead of hustling your way to success, build a system and process that allows you to put out content consistently and continue to provide value to your audience rather than being kind of an inconsistent spotty creator. First thing that I recommend doing is batching and scheduling. If you are a very busy individual, I recommend actually batching your content. Now, I do believe that there is a lot of power into real time content.

You have the idea and within 24 hours you film it. But for some of you, actually probably a lot of you watching this, that's not realistic with where you're at in your career, in your business, in your endeavors. And so what you need to do is you need to give yourself the system that is realistic for you in this current season. And more than likely, that looks like blocking off a Thursday or Friday, the whole day to film. This is where you need to go back to the section where I talk about creating a conducive environment to extract the best content.

Because if you're going to take a whole day to batch content, I will tell you cuz I am doing it right now, it's exhausting. And so you need the right environment to be able to continue and roll with the momentum so that you can make high value and useful content. Next, what I want you to do is create a content assembly line. Step one is ideation. This is when you are researching and brainstorming the topics that you are going to create your content around.

Step two is the creation. This is when you're drafting the script. you're hitting record and you're filming it. Step three is editing. Now, this is where, as we've discussed, you are optimizing the edit per platform that you're distributing.

So again, those top three platforms that you're prioritizing, those individuals are each editing that content for their platform. Step four is distribution. This is when you post and ideally engage. Again, the individuals who are managing those platforms and creating for it, they're the ones who are posting it on that platform. Now you have to figure out whether you want your team to engage on your behalf or you engage yourself.

I would encourage you highly it should be you. I think there's a massive amount of value for me as an audience member knowing that if I comment on your post and you respond, it's actually you. And I would actually prefer you do that at the detriment of high volume engagement. So maybe that means that you only respond to five comments a week. That's a little bit extreme, but maybe it's only five.

Well, I think that is a higher value if it is always you responding to the comments rather than your team responding to every single comment on your post. A tiny little hack around this that I will recommend that you can do is you can have your team make a team account. For Gary Vaynerchuk, we did this with a team Gary Vee account and this was very effective. Many times if he was extremely busy or we were posting and then he was going to hop on an international flight where he wouldn't have Wi-Fi.

Okay. Well, he would tell the team, "Go in under the Team Gary account and I want you to respond to every single comment." Sometimes he would literally have us do every single comment. And as you may be aware, he gets thousands of comments. So, it was very extensive. But this was a very effective way to do it.

The audience knew that this was his team and there was no funny business. There was no bait and switch where we were pretending to be Gary. No, we were just very clearly his team engaging with the audience. And then finally, step five is analyze. This is where you're reviewing the performance and you're taking note of what you can do to improve it in the future.

The next section is create room for experimentation. The biggest mistake that I see in content teams, they stop experimenting. It actually happens pretty slowly. At first, you're innovating. You're creating new content and breaking through ceilings and making stuff the industry has never seen.

But what ends up happening is you start learning what works and you double down on that, which is right. But then complacency and comfort sets in. The problem is the algorithm doesn't get comfortable and it doesn't get complacent. It's always shifting. Now, am I encouraging you to constantly try and chase the algorithm?

No. But the reality is is that your content is going to be served in a different way whenever they make a change. And so, you have to adapt to that change. What got you to where you are now will not get you to the next level. The unfortunate reality is is usually by the time that a team realizes this, it's almost too late.

They have built a culture of doubling down only on what they're doing and never trying new And often times, as much as I've been pushing databacked ideiation and databacked content, a lot of times true innovation has no data to back it. So what is the solution to overcome this hurdle and this huge problem that I see in many different teams? You need to bake experimentation into your process. This needs to be an intentional thing that you actually systematize and allow your team to do on a fairly consistent basis.

What I like to do is I like to encourage my teams to drive innovation through what I call content hackathons. Honestly, most teams aren't failing because of bad ideas. They're failing because they don't have any new ideas. And this is why I recommend either a monthly or quarterly content hackathon. Here's how I run them.

Either a monthly cadence or a quarterly cadence. You're going to dedicate an entire day to experimenting and for the team to make something completely new and completely different than what they do in their day-to-day. So, it starts at 9:00 a.m. And what you're going to do is you're going to do a kickoff call. It's usually 15 to 30 minutes.

It doesn't need to be anything fancy or long. What you're doing is you're giving context to the team because maybe you're scaling and you have new members on the team this quarter than last quarter. And so you need to make sure that everybody is on the same page. And what you're going to do is you are going to give them a safe space to try anything. What I would literally do is I would say I don't care how anything you make today performs.

I want you to create something that you've not done before on the team. Something that is not part of your dayto-day. And typically, I would advise people to only make one or two pieces of content. I'm not going for high volume here.