13 Create Room for Experimentation.

We're going for something completely disruptive and so different, so off-the-wall, that it's either going to absolutely crush or completely flop. And either way is fine because that is what you are incentivizing. Innovation, not performance. And a little fun thing that I like to do, too, is I like to send everybody on the team gift cards to pay for their lunch. If we're all in the same place, cool.

I'll order lunch for everybody. And the reason why is I just don't want them to have to think about that. I want them focusing on this innovative content they're making all day. And so what we do is we do the kickoff call and then they all go and start ripping away at their content. And typically what I like to do is give them basically from 9:00 a.m.

to 400 p.m. to create. And what I do is I put together a slide deck where they all have access edit access and they are supposed to on their slide upload their content. They're going to present it to the entire team at the end of the day. So 4 PM hits and usually I'll give them a 15 or 30 minute window to upload their content and embed it into the slide.

At 4:30, we're going to have a 1 hour or 1 and 1/2 hour call with the entire team where each individual is going to present what they made. Now I don't want them to just click play on their video. I want them to explain why they did what they did. And then what happens is after we've reviewed everybody's content, instead of having the incentive be the performance of the content, have the incentive be the amount of innovation that occurred. And the best way to measure that is the team.

They all know what you are making on a daily basis. And so what I like to do is have the team vote on who won, who made the most creative or innovative or completely off-the-wall piece of content that we should then run publicly. And I like to give a prize for it. So like often times I'll do like an Amazon gift card or or something of that nature that rewards them for pushing the envelope. Some of the best content formats that ended up being top performers for months or even years for us came from content hackathons.

I can't recommend this enough. It is amazing. Not only is it really effective, the team loves it. It's an entire day where they get to try new and there's no consequence to them making something that doesn't perform well. What you're actually doing is creating an environment for freedom, innovation, and creativity to flourish.

Now, content hackathons are great, but I want to give you a framework that you can actually utilize for ongoing experimentation that will empower your team to not only make what they know works, but also spend a little bit of time innovating and trying new Cuz ultimately, not every single piece of content should be an experiment. But if you never test new things, you will certainly plateau. So, this is the 702010 framework. 70% of your content you want to be proven that you know works. This is the bread and butter.

This is what you know consistently you can put out and will perform well and your audience will resonate with it. This is the content that reliably drives engagement and conversions. Now 20% is small improvements and iterations to the content you know works. This looks like minor tweaks to content that is already hitting with your audience. This looks like maybe adjusting the hooks, trying a new call to action, or testing a new format with the same subject matter.

And lastly, 10% should be saved for pure experimentation. This is where the breakthroughs actually happen. It looks like trying completely new formats, new topics or messaging, or completely different creative approaches to how you make the content. The unfortunate reality is most teams get stuck on the 70%. And I understand why.

It's comfortable, but comfort doesn't build iconic brands. The best teams out there always ensure that they have at least one foot in the 10% zone. To wrap this up, innovation isn't optional. It's a requirement to scale. Trends will shift, platforms will evolve, and audiences are going to move on.

If you're not creating space for experimentation, you're setting your team up to be in reaction mode rather than leading the pack. Because the teams that adapt first are the teams that win. And the last thing that I want to leave you with on this section is the scaling mindset. So many people quit too early. Mainly because they didn't have a good process and framework in place that allowed them to do this ongoing and enjoy it.

So they quit early. The people who win in the content game are the ones who stay consistent and stick with it for a very very long time. Also scaling is about iteration not perfection. This is observing, learning, and adapting over time. Progress over perfection.

And lastly, let the audience determine what is great. And the more you post, the more data you get on what your audience says is great. All right, so we've covered brand, we've covered content, and now we are on to team. And I would argue this is actually one of the most important parts of the whole puzzle. And personally, it is probably my favorite section of this entire course.

This is where I get a lot of enjoyment and fulfillment uh for myself in my career is building teams and helping to develop them. And so, a couple quick things that I want to share with you before we really dive in on why your team is everything. Ultimately, your team is not just there to execute, right? They are a multiplier of the vision that you have. A strong team doesn't just help you scale.

They are there to help you build something far bigger than you could ever do alone. Now, a lot of people watching this probably have never built a team. Definitely not a media or content team. A couple things to keep in mind that will help us as we go through this section are one, you don't hire just for skills. I actually emphasize hiring more for culture than skills.

I find it a lot easier to train skills than culture fit. You want to make sure that they align with your brand, where you're wanting to go. So, where you are right now and what you're wanting to accomplish and the subject matter that you're going to be speaking about. They should be interested and curious about those things. You want to make sure that you're hiring based off of platform goals that you have.

And so you want to identify what are the different platforms that we are emphasizing this next year or years and build the team around that not just your traditional videographer, editor, designer, audio engineer roles. And you want to make sure that they fit into your overall creative process. If you don't like a lot of preparation for film days and you like to go off the cuff, then you need to make sure you're hiring people that are comfortable with that and able to ask you good questions to prompt more information that comes out of you.

And number one is that we don't hire just to fill roles. We hire to solve problems. So, if there isn't a problem that you can diagnose, then there shouldn't be a role that we're hiring for this non-existent problem. Ultimately, what you end up doing, and I'll get into this further in a little bit, but you end up bringing somebody on that ultimately has no purpose on the team. And that is shitty for both parties.

Another one is that a bad hire doesn't just slow you down, it massively slows you down. it takes months to recover and you lose a ton of money in the process. And so what we're going to do in a little bit is we're going to walk through my entire hiring funnel. And I really encourage you pay close attention during this section because what we've talked about brand content, that's super important. But mistakes made on hiring your team are going to cost you hundreds of thousands of dollars and are going to become a massive headache and ultimately it causes a lot of people to write off this whole team thing.

I'm just going to do it myself with one other person. That's not the way that we want to do this. But we want to do it correctly from the start so that we build the correct foundation.