14 Section 3: Building Your Team.

And lastly, the best teams aren't built overnight. They require patience, intention, and investment in people who align with the desired outcome and the brand that you are building. So with that, let's dive in. All right. So first, before we hire anybody, let's define what we need.

Okay? So define your needs before hiring. There's what you need and there's what you want. We are only going to hire on the prior. What you need.

A lot of people hire way too quickly and they hire for roles that they think they're going to need. They've maybe heard people mention like that you need this D and what they don't do is they don't hire based on constraints. What you want to do is look at your process and what is causing the biggest constraint. For example, before we dive into this, if you are filming a bunch of content but nothing's getting edited, there is a very clear and obvious constraint. It's editing.

So, what would you hire? An editor. If, on the other hand, you're always getting videos done in post-production, but you don't have enough in the pipeline. So, the editor is sitting there twiddling their thumbs being like, "What the do I do?" Maybe you hire a videographer or a content strategist that can help you ideulate and come up with new ideas to film. We are hiring based on problems and constraints we have in the process, not off of some random perceived idea of what we should have on the team.

Now, to avoid making the mistake of hiring just what you want or what you think you need versus hiring off of problems you have, ask yourself these three questions. What tasks are taking the most amount of time away from high value work? Okay, so an example of this is if you're a content strategist but spend 50% of your time editing videos, you might need an editor. That's probably not the best use of your time and skills, okay? Because ultimately, you were hired to be the strategist.

And if you're splitting your time, sure, in the beginning, you're going to have to do that as you're building the team, but eventually we get to a point where we're going to want to specialize. And so, if you are finding that you were hired or you hired someone for a very specific role and they're fulfilling multiple roles, the way to scale up or improve efficiency is to hire somebody to do that role. In this case, hiring an editor to relieve time for your content strategist. Question number two, what's slowing down execution?

And I hit it already at the top, but I'm going to hammer it again because it's really important. If you're finding that you're filming all of this content and then it's just not going out, it's not getting done, you need to hire an editor. If you are always ready to film, always ready to edit, but you're sitting there twiddling your thumbs, not knowing what the to actually film, than a content strategist or ideation strategist, whatever you want to call them, that is going to be the critical role to bring into your team.

Whatever the bottleneck and constraint is, that is what you want to hire around. This is how we actually scale rapidly. And the last question you're going to ask yourself is, what content opportunities are currently being missed due to lack of resources? So, for example, if we identify that YouTube is your number one most important platform and you're posting one video a month and your goal is to get to two, but the current bandwidth of the team only allows for one.