15 Define Your Needs Before Hiring.

Well, then we're going to go up to the question above and we're going to find out which part of the process is our constraint and then we are going to hire for that. Ultimately, it's all boiling down to hiring around the problem, the bottleneck, the constraint that you have on the team. This is how we're going to scale fast. If you hire five editors, but editing isn't your constraint, you just brought on a lot of cost for no gain because you don't have enough input to match the output the editors can accomplish.

Please prioritize hiring for bottlenecks over convenience. Just because you're really good at hiring videographers doesn't mean that you need to hire five of them. You want to make sure that when you're hiring, you're hiring to create more leverage, not just offloading busy work. In fact, oftentimes what you can find is as you bring more people on, you can actually eliminate the busy work because you start to recognize the big tasks that actually move the lever for the team. Ultimately, we're not just trying to lighten everyone's load.

We're trying to accelerate execution and the impact that each individual has for the collective team, which drives bigger impact for the brand at large. Now, a huge mistake I see a lot of people make is they hire for general skills, not platform specific needs. What do I mean by that? Well, there is this very interesting split in our world that is occurring right now. You have great DPS, people that are great at filming beautiful videos.

You have editors that are incredible at editing these beautiful commercials or these long form films that you see going out on Netflix, etc. And they are incredible editors at their craft. But what a lot of people don't recognize is a great editor for a Netflix film is not a great editor for a YouTube video. They are very different skills and very different needs. Same for the videographer.

A DP that works on some like Amazon or Hulu documentary is going to have a very different set of skills than somebody who is filming, let's say, a vlog for one of the YouTubers, one of the big YouTubers online. Okay? Completely different needs. And right now we're still in the early stages of really understanding the nuance and difference between those kind of creatives. And so what you get a lot of times is people hiring somebody who is a great graphic designer and they make amazing brochures.

They're so good at designing your logo, your website, but they suck at YouTube thumbnails because it is a totally different skill set. And so what we want to do is identify what are the platforms that you are focusing on, which we've already done. And once we've done that, then we want to build the team around those specific needs. If you're not doing a lot of graphic design work, brochures, business cards, flyers, website updates, then you don't need a traditional graphic designer. If all they're doing is YouTube thumbnails, then actually typically those individuals do not have a traditional graphic design background because a lot of YouTube thumbnail best practices slap in the face of traditional graphic design best practices.

Now, another version of this is, and this is the funniest one, people being like, "All right, we're going to post some content on social media, so we're going to hire a social media manager." This is the worst thing in the world. If they're a generalist, if they are great at all of the platforms, they suck at all of the platforms. The reality is is in 2025, there are very few people on planet Earth, I would say less than .001% that actually understand at a master level all of the different platforms.

It'd be impossible. They're evolving all the time. And so, what you're going to actually find that you want is you want channel specific managers, not a social media manager. So instead of hiring a social media manager that oversees all your different platforms, maybe what you're going to do is in the beginning because you can't afford to hire a manager for all five of the platforms that you're on. Maybe what you do is you make sure that your creatives that you bring in emphasize one of those platforms so that they have a greater understanding than you do of how YouTube works or Instagram or LinkedIn or Facebook or whatever the new one in 2026 is.

Now, on the contrary, if LinkedIn is where the majority of your business results occur, where a lot of conversions happen, where a lot of your customers are, and a lot of interesting conversations happen, well, I would actually recommend hiring a LinkedIn writer. Again, notice I didn't say copywriter, just general. I said LinkedIn writer. Hire them before a video editor. Like, if you look at how we approached content for Rston in 2025, we started posting on LinkedIn before any other platform.

And so we emphasized that. We started working with a LinkedIn writer uh freelancer and instead of making video content right away, we actually emphasized that because I had a feeling that that would generate a good amount of leads for our business. And it did. We made sure to align our hiring with our actual needs. So as an example, instead of hiring a generalist, you might hire a YouTube editor and immediately get 2x the content output.

You might then bring on a short form video editor to maximize repurposing that long- form content. Ultimately, a lot of the times we're trying to build a scenario where the individual, the talent on camera isn't spending all their time creating content. So maybe for a while you have the long form that you're doing and the editor does that. They 2x the output and then the short form editors are just utilizing that same media, that same footage and repurposing it, but you're getting two, three, four, five times the amount of impressions you would if you were just doing the long form.

Then maybe you hire a platform strategist. And notice I'm saying a platform strategist, not social media strategist, because what you want to do is you want to make sure they are specifically tailored to the platforms you're prioritizing. Now what you might find in the beginning is you need to hire somebody who is a gangster at YouTube. They understand LinkedIn and you know they dabble with Instagram. That's fine.

But you just want to make sure that they are prioritizing and more proficient in one. The generalist not what you want. If it's not obvious by now, the key takeaway is always hire for the highest impact content first. Whatever platform you're getting the most traction on, make sure you hire around that. and whatever platform you're hiring around, hire for whatever the biggest constraint in the process for creating for that platform is.

So now we've defined what the roles are that we need and and why we need them and we're being very intentional with how we're hiring them and what problems we're trying to solve with these hires. Now we got to actually do the hiring. So let's streamline the process. Just like we were defining our needs, we are now going to define the role clearly. One of the biggest mistakes I see people make when they're hiring a creative uh for their team is just they don't know what they're actually looking for.

Maybe they know the role and they know the problem, but then they haven't articulated the specific needs that they need to solve. Let's say you're hiring a videographer and you're going to be making uh vlog content around motorcycles, right? You hire this videographer, you know that you're going to be filming vlog content, so they got to be proficient at that. You know it's going to be motorcycle content. So, okay, you want them to be at least somewhat interested in the subject matter, but then what if you are somebody who is only willing to film early early in the morning, like 4:00 a.m.

to 8:00 a.m. or 8:00 p.m. to midnight, and you have those very specific needs. If you have not articulated that in your job description, you are going to get a lot of people that apply and go through the interview process and waste your time that are not willing to work within those hours. And so you need to really sit down and clearly articulate what are all the needs, not just the function, not just the subject matter, but also what are the ancillary needs that you have that are unique to you.

So, a couple of questions you can ask yourself before you start looking for candidates are the following. Is this role about creating, managing, or analyzing content? An example is that a YouTube editor is creating content, but a content strategist is managing and optimizing distribution. Very key distinction there. So, we want to make sure we understand what their function, what their role is.

Number two, are we at the point in our team, in our company, in our brand where we can actually hire somebody who is focused on a single platform or are we still in the early stage where we need somebody who can work across multiple platforms? Again, from what I said earlier, you want to always make sure that you are hiring somebody who is a specialist, but in the beginning, you can't hire people that are only going to do one thing. It's just impossible. So you hire a specialist who is willing to play the role of a generalist and they do end up taking on multiple platforms in the beginning.

This needs to be clearly defined and articulated not only for yourself but for the candidates. Number three is how does this role contribute to the bigger picture. This is really important because one you want to know it so that you can justify paying this person but also you want to always be tying what the individual once you hire them what they are doing to the big picture to the vision to how the company how the brand is scaling and growing. If you do that it gives them way bigger purpose and allows them to see themselves in that role in that organization for a lot longer.

And again, please remember, I'm just going to keep emphasizing this throughout it because it's so important. Every hire should be brought on to remove a bottleneck, to solve a problem, and allow the team to execute faster and more effectively.