16 Streamline Your Hiring Process.

All right, cool. So, we've defined what we need. We've defined the role. Now, it's time for everybody's favorite activity, which is writing a job description. Now, I say that sarcastically, but I actually, for whatever reason, I don't know what the is wrong with my brain, I love writing job descriptions.

I love the whole hiring process, interviewing, everything. It's my favorite. But if it's not your favorite, I think walking through this is going to be extremely helpful for you. What do you get with vague job descriptions? Vague candidates.

Be very specific with responsibilities and expectations. So, I like to use the four Rs framework for drafting job descriptions. And rather than just running through the different four Rs, I actually want to describe what each R is and then walk you through an actual job description that I have here right in front of me on my phone. So the first R is role. What contribution is this individual making to the organization?

What function do they have within the team? So for this job description, this is for a brand director and the role overview is company is looking for a brand director to build and scale the CEO's personal brand across YouTube, LinkedIn and other key platforms. This role requires a deep understanding of content strategy, social media growth, and personal brand development. You will be responsible for transforming CEO's thought leadership into an influential digital presence that resonates with entrepreneurs, business leaders, and innovators.

So that's the role part of the job description. All right. So now we move down to responsibilities. What are they going to own? What tasks are they going to own on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly basis.

This is a very extensive one. So stick with me. Under responsibilities, we have it broken down into different subsections. First one is content strategy and execution. establish and scale the CEO's YouTube presence, leveraging his speeches and interviews to create both long- form and short form content, eventually building on top of this and developing platform native platform first YouTube content.

Develop and execute a LinkedIn content strategy incorporating a mix of written posts and short form videos derived from existing content. creative production and management, oversee the filming and editing process for social content, ensuring highquality production and platform specific optimization. And I think you get the picture here like the responsibilities are going very tactical into what they are owning. What are they doing on a daily basis that you expect them to do? Now the next one is requirements.

I think this is pretty obvious and and speaks for itself, but essentially this is what are the skills and experience they need or are required in order for them to do this job to get this role. So again, for this one, I'll read a couple of the requirements, not all of them. Uh, one of them is three plus years of experience growing a personal brand with proven success in scaling reach and engagement, a strong background in filming, editing, and social content production, both short form and long form.

Experience managing creatives. exceptional storytelling skills with the ability to extract and refine high value insights. So that's requirements. Again, this is just telling them this is what you need to be able to do and have done in your career thus far in order to qualify for this role. And the final R is results.

What are the success metrics that we are tracking? What does success look like? What are we expecting them to do and accomplish or what are we expecting to have happen based on their responsibilities? Think of it like responsibilities is the input and results is the output of those responsibilities. So on this one, I'll read you a couple.

Again, I'm not going to read them all cuz this is a very heady extensive one. And this is definitely going to be one of those things that you can download. I'm sure there's already been an icon that popped up. Study it, duplicate it, and use it for yourself. If you're hiring a brand director, by all means, use it how you need.

Establish the CEO's YouTube channel with consistent long- form uploads and high performing clips. A minimum of two videos per month. Scale LinkedIn engagement and follower growth through a mix of written and video content. Posting at least two written and two video posts per week. We want to make sure that it is not only describing the efforts, but it's very specific on what the output will be.

So, if you want to be doing two videos a month, okay, cool. Make sure to specify that, not just say establish CEO's YouTube channel with consistent long form uploads and high performing clips. That would be very vague and not helpful. Two things that I like to add to a four Rs and they have nothing to do. They don't start with an R or anything, but it's communication and cadence and expectations.

I always like to make sure that a candidate understands like if you expect them to respond at 7:30 a.m. in the morning on Slack, well, that's not necessarily the norm in most workplaces. And so, if that is an expectation you have, okay, by all means, have that. But make sure you vocalize it and make it clear to them before you hire them so that they can tell you whether or not they are down for that or not. And if they're not, they're not the right fit for your role.

And that's fine. No worries. The other one that I like to add is core values. I like to ensure that if a candidate is going to come in and join the company that they agree with what our core values are. And ideally, it's something that they already prioritize in their personal life.

And so when they hear your core values, they actually resonate with it and are able to speak to, oh, I live my life by this. This is actually how I apply blank core value. All right. We've defined the need. We've defined the role.

We've even created a job description using the four Rs framework. And now we need to start the hiring process. So, I'm going to share with you my hiring funnel. Now, this is probably going to seem pretty extensive and maybe a little too much. It's worth it.

We talked at the top about how expensive it is to hire somebody that is not the right fit and then have to exit them and rekick off the search. It is a brutal, painful process. Trust me, I've been through it multiple times. Do everything in your power to not shortcut things. I will tell you, I have hired a lot of different creatives and anytime that I've made a mistake on it, it's for only one reason.

I was in a rush. We had pain on the team. We had pain in our process. We had a very clear definition of what we needed. And we were clearly solving a problem because it was a problem we were feeling every day.

But I tried to shortcut the process and I ignored red flags that were pretty obvious and in my face. What this hiring funnel is designed to do is to make those red flags very clear, very obvious, and then allow you and your team to discuss them. Ultimately, we're never going to find when we're searching for a candidate a 100%. There it just doesn't exist. So what you're looking for is an 80% and you want to discuss with your team if that remaining 20% is something you feel confident either you don't need or you can train.

So the first part of the hiring funnel is you need to have a place where candidates can submit their CV and potentially even a video. This is obvious like you know you can use Indeed, you can use all these different platforms or you can have something hosted on your website. I would encourage you to do that if possible. And this is an area where they're able to upload their CV and show you their work history. This seems obvious, but there's a lot of you out there right now that are thinking about building your creative team and you've never really thought about this part.

No, I don't overemphasize CVs and I want to make sure that's super clear. It's not the most important thing by any means, but it does reveal some potential strengths or weaknesses. For example, if you notice that a candidate has had 10 jobs in the last five years, that is an interesting thing. Not necessarily something that's going to rule them out by any means. Different industries, different roles have higher turnover, right?

And it might be just normal and part of the function of that role. That's fine. But it's definitely something you're going to want to have a little bit of a further investigation on and discuss in the screening call. And for the video portion, I highly encourage anybody that I'm working with to give the option for a candidate to submit a video. I wouldn't require it, but I would definitely give them the option.

And the reason why is I think one, you see a lot of creativity that comes through, but more than that, there's no personality. There's no human element that comes through in a CV. You're not going to see like how they talk if they talk too much, their negative or positive tone, right? you're not going to see their little quirks, their silly personality that come out. That can be such a massive benefit for you to see how you feel they will fit with the rest of your team.

For example, there was a role that I was hiring maybe about a year, a year and a half ago, a creative director role. We had been looking for about 3 or 4 months. I remember this one candidate came through and I was very impressed with their CV and everything, but what really impressed me and stood out was they had made a video, not like an edit that was showing what their skills were. It was a video of them talking about their experience, their background, their passions, and how that applied to the role we were hiring.

It was it was amazing. It was a multicam video, too. I mean, it was very impressive and it was very clear that this individual was hungry for the role and truly believed they were the right fit. They put in way more effort than any of the other candidates. And spoiler alert, we hired him.

After they submit their resume or CV, you're going to have somebody on your team that is going to be doing screening calls. So, what they're going to do is they're going to have gobs and and piles of résumés and CVs to look through. In doing the screening, what you're trying to do is you're verifying that they are aligned with the salary expectations. If you're wanting them to be in person or remote or hybrid, they understand the communication expectations. If you're an organization that needs somebody working 6 days a week, you're making sure that they're okay with that.

If this role is someone who is traveling, let's say it's, you know, a videographer that's always going to be on the road traveling five days a week. Well, you need to make sure that they saw that in the job description and they're good with that. And so, you're just making sure that this candidate understands all the basics and they're good with it. You're also verifying a little bit of experience. So, I give a few questions to the screeners, whoever is doing it, whether it's a recruiter or just somebody else on your team.

I tend to provide them two or three slightly technical questions. The reason why is because oftentimes if I'm running the technical assessment or the technical interview or the final interview, I want to watch the screening call. I want to understand how they showed up so that I know how to interview them. And by asking a few light technical questions, you get a lot of insight on whether or not they know what the they're actually talking about or if they're just kind of bullshitting you. Or the craziest thing that I've literally encountered five times in the last month is individuals using AI that is listening to the question in the background and spitting out an answer in bullet points for them to regurgitate to you.

This is becoming a very big thing and uh I have literally experienced it five times in the last month and it's it's alarming. If you get a good technical question or two into the screening interview, you typically can avoid this and sus out if it's actually Sarah answering the question or if it's chat GBT. Once they get through your second line of defense, which is the screening call, you're going to go to a technical interview. Now, ideally, this is conducted by somebody who actually understands the role deeply.

So for me, luckily I understand all the different roles on a creative team. So I'm able to do a technical interview for any role. Designer, motion graphics, uh videographer, editor, copywriter, content strategist, channel manager, anything you name it. Often times you don't have somebody like that in your organization. And so if you don't, what you're going to look for is somebody who can understand the role as best as possible, right?

And so what this might look like is doing some research on what a YouTube video editor is and what they need to be proficient in so that you can actually ask them the right questions. Because if you don't ask them the right questions, you're not going to know if they're the right fit. There's a second thing that I'm going to touch on here in a second, technical assessment. Just cuz they do an amazing job on a technical assessment doesn't necessarily mean they can do it over and over and over again.

And so you want to ask strategic questions that not only show that they know what they're doing, but show you how they think about solving problems, how they think about coming up with new ideas and innovating on stuff they've already been doing. Your goal with the technical interview is to assess strategic knowledge and the ability to execute. You want to make sure they have both. So, for example, if I'm interviewing a short form editor, let's say I have a brand and we have a very known style of short form content, okay?

And a lot of people copy it, for example. Well, if that's the case, I'm going to not ask the short form editor, do you know how to make what we are currently doing? What I'm going to ask them, and this is what I've done with many of the different brands I've worked with, I'm going to ask, how would you go about innovating on this? I'm tired of the style that we've been doing for the last 6 months. I need something fresh and new.

What would you do in order to get that new style? What I'm not looking for is the right answer of this is the new style I would do. I'm looking for how they think. How would they go about getting that new style, creating that new style? Because the problem for a lot of editors is they're very good at following rules and instructions.

They come from a checklist army, but they don't have ownership and they don't have the ability to create innovation and drive a new style, new format on their own. And so that's where you're trying to assess their strategic knowledge and abilities to execute on said strategic knowledge. So if they pass the technical interview, you're going to want to immediately provide them a technical assessment. This should mirror what their actual job looks like. You don't want to do something that has nothing to do with what their day-to-day is.

This is your opportunity to see how do they show up on the tasks that I'm going to be giving them daily, weekly, or monthly. So, for example, if we're hiring that short form editor, what I'm going to do is they just walked me through how they would go about creating a new style for our short form content. So, what am I going to do for the technical assessment? I'm going to give them 72 hours and maybe one hour of raw footage and let them create a new style for our short form content. Now, what are we testing in this?

Well, one, we gave them a 72-hour deadline. So, we're seeing how are they with time management and commitments. Number two, they're going to have to deliver this item to us. How do they go about delivering it? Like, do they just like upload it to Google Drive and hit share straight from Google Drive?

Do they package it into an email? How is their communication? Number four, we're seeing can they actually execute on what they were saying in the interview? They talked a good talk of how they're going to come up with a new format and new style. Can they actually deliver on that?

And number five, do they show their work? So maybe they created this new style, but do they explain how they went about it? Now, that's bonus points and everything, but if somebody does that, what that shows me is they have the strategic ability, they're very creative, they can execute, and even crazier, they could train somebody else to do the same. If they can understand the why and the how, then they can duplicate that to anybody. But again, please just make sure that the technical assessment lines up with what their actual role is.

You don't want to waste anybody's time. The other thing too, little side note here is ensure that you give every single candidate for the same role the same technical assessment. If you give them different you don't know how to measure them against each other versus if they all have the same thing, you're able to assess who's the right fit and who's not the right fit for your team. If they absolutely blew you away with their technical interview and their technical assessment, congrats. You're on to the next round.

It's not over yet. Culture interview. If you are a team, an individual or a company that actually operates off of your core values and builds your culture accordingly, then this should really matter. This is where you find out, okay, they're very technically proficient. They're very good at their job.

Now, the way they operate as a human in the workplace, does that work with the current humans we have in the workplace? For example, if speed of communication is a high priority, like you send a Slack message and expect a response at the latest five minutes later, and this person prioritizes deep work and will go 8 hours a day without checking their Slack, they might be an incredible editor and do amazing work, but it might not work well for your team. If you expect 5 minutes and they wait 8 hours, you're going to be pissed.

and you're going to be pissed, but it's not really their fault because you didn't do a good job of determining whether or not they lined up with your communication culture. And honestly, a lot of the hires that I've made, I actually overemphasize their cultural fit over their technical fit. And it's just my belief that I can train the technical gap pretty well. It's actually really not that hard to take an editor who you might rate as like a five or six out of 10 to like a eight or nine fairly quickly.

However, somebody culturally that you rate as a five or six, taking them to a eight or nine, that's going to be a lot harder. You're talking about ways that somebody operates in and outside of work. And so, if they're getting reinforcement and they're building the pattern of doing it outside of work, you have a big hill to climb. So, I prefer if somebody is technically mid, but they are culturally great. They show enthusiasm, lack of ego, and they're willing to do whatever the it takes.

Man, I'd hire that person at a five or a six over an eight or nine editor who has a massive ego, who can't take any feedback, and is kind of lazy. And actually, an example of this is Trevor Odum. I hired Trevor about 3 years ago, and I would call him probably a 6 out of 10 in his editing. Culturally, he was a 10 out of 10. He showed massive humility.

He showed extreme eagerness to learn, willing to do whatever it took, hard worker, would take the shitty responsibilities as well as the cool responsibilities, and showed a lot of consistency, especially for a young age. I hired Trevor and we trained and worked on his technical skills. And the reason why we were able to work on the technical skills and he was able to see growth is because he had the soft skills. The culture of it was very much there. I'll take that all day over somebody who is highly proficient but a Now, ways that you can identify whether or not they're a culture fit is asking about their past work environments.

What was that like? How do they approach problem solving? A question that I really like to ask is if you're in a meeting with five or more people and somebody gives you direct feedback in front of everyone, how do you respond? If somebody is demanding that you drop what you are currently working on and assist them, but they're not your manager, how do you respond? I like to give them real life scenarios that actually occur in the workplace.

And what I just mentioned is two of many very common occurrences that happen in the workplace. Right? If I know somebody who's higher up on the team, maybe the CEO or CMO has a preferred way of communicating, I'm going to ask them how they feel about that preferred way of communicating. A lot of CEOs actually prefer very direct, very quick communication. They don't add fluff.

They don't add smiley faces and things like that. I like to ask, are you okay with that? Sometimes if you're hiring a videographer to film with a CEO, for example, the CEO is not going to want to talk to the videographer about their life. They're not going to want to talk about anything other than what they are there to film. That's okay.

There's nothing wrong with that. But I need to make sure that the videographer is going to be able to handle something like that and not need to talk about their personal life with their boss. All right. If we have passed the screening, if we've passed the technical interview, the technical assessment and the culture interview, we are now on to the final interview. And typically what this looks like is a high-up leader.

So if there is a department like let's say for example you have a CMO in your company and your content team falls under the marketing department maybe the final interview is going to be with the CMO or if it's a very very uh important and crucial role maybe the final interview is with the CEO I prefer the final interview to be with the most senior person that this individual will be corresponding with. So if they are going to be messaging or interacting with the CEO in any manner I do think that the final interview should be the CEO. However, if they're never going to interact with the CEO at all, CMO, director of brand, whatever is perfectly perfectly fine.

And usually the way this works is it's somebody with a lot of experience. Okay? So, they've hired a lot of people. They've hired a lot of the right people. They've hired a lot of the wrong people.

And they're reviewing all the different interview notes from all the different interviews leading to this moment. They are the ones with the most context, both from their past history, but also the most context on this specific candidate. And so it's their job to poke holes in any areas that were question marks from the previous interviews. If somebody thought they were hardworking but potentially weren't open to working on weekends and this role required every once in a while to work a Saturday or Sunday, the final interview is going to have to press into that and ensure that they're okay working on an occasional Saturday or Sunday.

You shouldn't leave the final interview with any additional questions. Everything should be finalized within that interview. Now, the same goes for the candidate. You give them on all of these, but especially the final interview, you want to give them the opportunity to ask you questions as well. In doing so, you're going to learn a lot about them.

If they have no questions to ask, probably not a good thing. On the other hand, somebody who asks very strategic questions that make sure that they understand what is required, what's expected of them or they gain clarity on that. That is somebody who is very interesting because they are thoughtful and they make their decisions based on information and context, not just emotion and excitement. Now, here's a pro tip. Uh, what I just said is insane, right?

That's like so many different steps. And you might be like, "Yo, homie, I am a oneperson team that's about to hire my first person." Then what I would encourage you to do is not skip any of these steps, but maybe what you do is you combine them. So instead of having six different steps in the process, maybe you have three different calls or two different calls that you do with this person or these candidates and you just chunk them together. So maybe the technical, maybe the screening and the technical occur in the same call.

Maybe culture and final are same and you have the technical assessment in between. That would be a three-part process and you would be able to accomplish that with one person. ultimately use what you got. Okay? Like if you don't have a team of 20 people, yeah, you're not going to execute this.

That's fine. The other thing that I will say is sometimes there are individuals who you work with on a vendor like basis that they might be able to be part of the process. Say for example, you have a YouTube agency you're working with and you're hiring a YouTube editor. If you have a good relationship with this agency and you trust them and you've established what the timeline of your engagement will be, so they know you're eventually bringing it inhouse, maybe they can conduct the technical interview for the YouTube editor since they probably understand YouTube editing far more than you do.

So, there's a lot of ways to be creative with this. Don't write it off just because you don't have the headcount to be able to do such an extensive process. You want to be extensive. You want to be detailed because you're bringing somebody in that is either going to raise the bar or lower the bar. And all we want to do here is raise the bar.

Okay. So, why does this process actually work? Well, one, it removes bad hires early. Especially the optional video. This can filter out candidates who aren't taking the role serious, right?

They're applying to a hundred different role. I mean, now using AI, they can automate applying to like a million different roles every day. And so you can weed out who are the ones that are just mass applying versus the ones that are looking at this specific role within your specific organization or team and saying I'm a good fit for this. Number two is we are actually ensuring that there's platform alignment here. Like we said at the top, we're trying to prioritize platforms and hire people accordingly, right?

And so we're using technical assessments to test the execution ability before hiring them for that specific platform. So, we get to see this YouTube editor. Are they a great editor or are they a great YouTube editor? Number three is that it creates cultural fit. Culture interviews allow you to avoid hiring somebody who is highkilled but also a piece of Somebody who's not going to fit into your culture.

And just because they don't fit in your culture doesn't mean they're a piece of But there are lots of pieces of out there that are great technically at what they do. and 6 months in you find out they're an absolute nightmare to have on the team. And even though their performance is high, they drag everybody else's performance low and they're actually an anchor rather than a rocket. And finally, this actually just speeds up the hiring process. If you have a designed and intentional process that you follow, everybody whether it's you yourself and I or you and your team are on the same page and eliminates a lot of unnecessary back and forth and it can move people through the funnel a lot faster.

Now, I'm also going to share with you a completely different funnel system, but it doesn't work for every single role. I've typically found that it works best for editors, designers, and strategists. It's a try out system or a try out funnel. And I'm just going to walk you through exactly how I do it. What I did is on Monday, I announced that we were conducting tryyouts.

On Monday, I opened up registration for the tryyouts and closed registration by 12:00 p.m. Pacific time on Thursday. So, they had a couple of days to be able to sign up. Thursday at 3 or maybe 5:00 p.m., we sent out an email to everyone who had registered. And the email had the following.

It had instructions on what we expected. We want you to edit a 12 to 20 minute YouTube video using this raw footage. We want you to create a thumbnail and title. And we want you to create a short form video that goes with it. We were asking for a lot, but ultimately that's what we're asking for in the day-to-day job.

And so we want to make sure that what the assessment is mirrors the job. And so what you're going to notice here is it's essentially the same funnel, but it's in a different order. So we sent that email out. We linked them to the raw footage, and we gave them a due date. Again, this was sent out Thursday at 5:00 p.m., and the due date was Monday at 9:00 a.m.

Just like I mentioned earlier for the technical assessment, we're measuring so many different things. How do they manage their time? They have all these different tasks. How do they prioritize? If somebody submits on time, but they didn't submit everything, that might be okay because maybe we've identified that the short form video is the lowest priority and the thumbnail and title were just to see what their skills and knowledge were there.

And if they prioritized and executed on the long form video, maybe they win. Maybe we just have more insights that they're not capable of adding the ancillary benefits of packaging or short form content as well. And so you're able to evaluate candidates on a very granular level. You also get the benefit of they're all editing the same exact footage and you might be reviewing, you know, 10 different editors or in my case 200 different editors editing the same exact footage. So what we had is about, I think, 1500 different editors register for it.

Throughout the Thursday to Monday deadline, we had about 220 250 editors that actually submitted their work. And so then came the screening time. That was gnarly. I'll tell you, you get really bored of that footage very fast. But the cool thing is is you're able to evaluate how every single person did the intro, how they did the outro, and the meat of the video.

And so it's very easy to stack different editors against each other and evaluate who was the best. Now, what we did is we reviewed everything. And the ones who passed the technical assessment, we then set up a screening interview. Then that went to a technical interview, then a culture, then final. So essentially, we did the exact same funnel as we normally would, but we moved the technical assessment up front.

That was a very interesting way to do it. Now, this doesn't work for every single role. As you can probably imagine, it would be almost impossible to do this with, say, a videographer. So the try out system only works from what I have gathered. And please, I would love to hear if any of you have used it for other roles.

Like I'm very curious what I found success in just to remind you is designers, editors, and strategists. Anything that you can provide one source piece that everyone can use versus you being the source piece and you can't scale to 100 different people, 200 people all across the world. And like I said earlier, I talked about hiring for culture rather than skills. I actually want to make this an entire section here because it's that important. Think cultural fit over perfection.

I believe that you can teach anything, but in a realistic amount of time, you can teach technical skills fairly easily. I I cringe when I say that cuz I I know a lot of people are going to hate that I say that, but I truly believe you can train technical skills pretty quick. However, teaching hunger, empathy, adaptability, these are traits that are a lot harder to train, have years of pattern established in their life that you're going to have to overcome. Is it doable? Yes.

Is it worth your time and money? No. And I truly believe that somebody who is highly proactive, they have high agency, they own everything, they're hungry, they're going to get a lot more done over a long period of time than somebody who is technically proficient but has less drive. And here's an amazing example. There's an individual named Jason Leva.

I love this man. Uh he was one of the best hires I have ever made in my entire career. And the crazy part is he wasn't that experienced. You know, Jason, if you're watching this, please hear this through uh all love and everything, but I actually didn't think his edit was that great. I thought it was good enough and he passed and went to the screening call.

He actually went through that tryyout system. But what I noticed was he was so hungry to learn and so willing to figure out how to solve a problem. He was a sponge. Now, most directors would have written him off and saw the edit and been like, "Well, that wasn't in the top 10, so nah, we're not going to move forward." Sure, he passed the screening call, but now that I'm doing the technical, ah, not a fit. But what I noticed was that he was a sponge, and he took feedback unbelievably well.

I gave him very direct feedback on the interview, on his edit. I told him what I really liked, and I told him what I didn't like. I called out areas where he made mistakes, right? there was a dropped frame or there was, you know, a plugin missing or something like that. And Jason took that feedback so graciously.

He was grateful for it. He thanked me for it on the call. It was crazy. And so it was in that moment that I realized, okay, this is the kind of character that I want to bring onto the team because whether it's short form editing right now or eventually being a videographer later, this man is willing to do whatever it takes. And that's what I need more than somebody who is technically proficient but not adaptable and not willing to hear feedback.

Hire for mindset and train for execution. A motivated member can grow into a role. However, a disengaged one will definitely stay stagnant.