17 Hire for Culture, Train for Skills.

Now, the next section is prioritizing strengths that match the platform. Every platform has a unique content style and requires a very specific type of creative thinking. If you hire the wrong person for the wrong platform, they might be really good at YouTube shorts and Instagram reels, but if you hire them to be a long form editor, you might kill your engagement and your success on YouTube. Now, we talked earlier about how all the platforms behave differently, right? like you are yourself and you show up as you to all these different platforms.

But just like if I am here filming right now, then I go meet up with my mom and then have dinner and beers with the boys. I'm myself, but I'm going to present slightly different given the context and scenario I'm in, right? We already discussed that. And that's how the platforms behave. You show up as yourself on LinkedIn just like you do on Tik Tok and Instagram, but you're going to talk about and emphasize different things based on the context of the platform you're in.

You need to reverse engineer those needs into individuals and that's how you hire. Take Tik Tok and Instagram for example. Uh these are short form and fast-paced traditionally platforms. And so the best fit is going to be a creator who is immersed and understands trends and understands fast-paced editing or at least understands how to continue to open and close loops to retain attention. This is ideally somebody who lives, eats and breathes Tik Tok and Instagram.

They need to understand really truly what is happening on the platform. What is the psychology and what are the viewers and consumers on that platform expecting and looking for? Ideally, the 2.0 version of that is they understand all of that and they're able to identify tiny little gaps in the market, maybe within your niche that currently exist, and they're able to provide you the direction of how to fill it. Now, a very clear red flag for somebody on Tik Tok or Instagram that you're hiring is going to be if they are overly focused on high production value without understanding what it takes to attract attention, a strong hook.

And ultimately understanding that high quality, as we discussed earlier, is not determined by us on the team. We don't subjectively determine what quality is. The audience determines what quality is. And so if somebody is overemphasizing high production value and high quality content, well, that's based on their subjective definition of what quality is, not what the audience is. And that's not what we care about.

Now, LinkedIn, if we're looking for somebody there, the best fit is probably somebody who thrives in long form writing, right? They probably need to know some penmanship and have a little bit of abilities there. But it's not going to be somebody that excels at writing long form articles necessarily. This is somebody who is able to take a couple of sentences and structure them together in a way that not only hooks attention but holds attention throughout the post. What's going to usually work here is a writer who is skilled in crafting high value concise content that sparks conversation.

That last part is key. You want to especially with how LinkedIn and we talked about it earlier but I'm just going to hit it again because LinkedIn is one of the ones that I'm most excited about this year. LinkedIn right now, if you get engagement on the platform, everyone sees. It's crazy. It It literally is true virality.

And so what you want is somebody who understands not only how to provide value, but how to provide value that sparks conversation in the comments. That is what is going to drive awareness beyond just your current following. And the red flag is somebody who is too focused on formal and corporate writing. You would bet that that's what you want on LinkedIn, right? It's a bunch of business people in suits and No, that.

That's the reason why you don't want that. Everybody does that. Everybody sounds like they're in their elevator pitch, you know, in a interview with like a board full of like 10 different people trying to sound all stiff and proper. Nobody gives a about that. The more human and the more personable you are, actually, the more you will stand out on that platform.

And so you want to make sure it's somebody who if they're writing on your behalf is able to understand your personality and inject that into the content rather than taking it out. Now, if you're hiring for YouTube long form specifically, you're going to be looking for an editor who understands that your opening 15 to 30 seconds is the most crucial part of your entire video. And if you don't nail that, the rest doesn't matter. They also need to be somebody who then understands that throughout the video they need to be creating tension, stakes, open loops, some sort of reason for the viewer to continue watching.

They need to understand that if you do deliver all the value of the video in the opening 3 minutes, why would they remain for the next 10? So, they need to understand good storytelling and engaging editing, but they also need to understand the subject matter enough that they are competent and aware of the subject matter so they can sprinkle the value throughout the video rather than giving it all in the upfront. Because, as we talked about before, YouTube loves watch time. And so, that's what you're going to want to look for in a YouTube editor.

Huge red flag here is if you're hiring a videographer for your YouTube, if it's somebody who overemphasizes very traditional styles of production. Maybe you're a running gun operation doing more vlog style content and they want to stop every scene, every moment and ensure that the lighting is perfect, the composition is perfect. They want to they aren't willing to use zoom lenses. They only use primes. Not going to work, right?

You want to make sure that their technical skills align with the technical needs of the role. All right, the next section is start lean and grow intentionally. I laugh because uh this is a a huge problem that I see with media teams and then they have to do massive layoffs. Avoid overhiring too early. A small, high impact, nimble seal team six style team will accomplish so much more than a bloated inefficient team.

I believe in hiring specialists, but early on these specialists need to be willing to be multifunctional, okay? They have to wear multiple hats. You might have somebody who is specializing in YouTube long form editing, but you're probably going to need them to cut some short clips and maybe even create some thumbnails. That is okay. In the beginning, that is what you're going to need.

And so, you need to make sure that you emphasize that in the hiring process. Here's an example. If you're at the very beginning stages and you're limited on budget, you probably need a videographer and an editor, but you might not be able to afford hiring both. And so, you're going to hire somebody who can do both. Somebody who can film and edit.

You gain a lot of efficiencies in that. Ultimately, down the road, you're going to want to send them down one path or the other so that they can be the specialist and you can get the most out of their skill set. But in the beginning, you have to have people wearing multiple hats. So again, if you need a videographer and editor and you have a very limited budget, I recommend hiring somebody who is skilled at both. Now, you need to make sure you identify which one is the priority.

If you prioritize really good filming and steady hand and all that great question asking. And maybe they're not as good at editing, maybe that is an okay concession to make at the stage you were currently at. Now, why does this actually matter? Like, why do we want to not overhire? I mean, it seems obvious, but I'm going to run through just so that you really understand why you should avoid this.

Number one, you avoid unnecessary payroll expenses before proving the ROI on content. I truly believe that anybody who does content correctly will get an ROI literally no matter what they do, even as an employee. However, you might not be doing it good, and you might not be at the point where you can actually hire enough people or the right people to do it well. And if that's the case, then you might be putting out content that sucks and doesn't provide anything. In which case, I don't know that I'd be scaling your team up from there.

You're just going to be hiring more people that are not capable at actually driving awareness to your content, which means you're driving your ROI down because you're adding headcount and payroll, but you're not adding any profitability or revenue to the company from the content. If you keep the team smaller and don't hire too quickly, well, you also keep operations nimble, making it flexible, easy to pivot and move around as needed. I can't tell you how many times I've had to change process, priorities, everything, because one, platforms are constantly evolving and changing and requiring new things for you to win, but also your client.