18 Start Lean, Grow Intentionally.

If you're building a team for the CEO or founder, or if you are the CEO and founder yourself, your desired outcomes, your preferences are going to change. You might really enjoy doing vlogging for a while and then go into a season where things are stressful and you don't want to have a camera around all the time and you need to make more sit down direct to camera style content like this. Well, you need a nimble team that is able to pivot and reverse engineer those needs. If you have a massive bloated team, oftentimes, I mean, think of it like, you know, if you're turning on a dime in a little speedboat, it's not going to be that difficult.

But if you have to turn on a dime in a oil tanker, you're The last benefit that I really see here is there's a lot of context that is developed. You allow the individuals on your team to understand the various functions that you have on the team. Well, how is that helpful? Well, one, when you bring in more specialists, they're able to communicate in an educated way cuz they did the role at least at some capacity. So, they can speak the lingo.

They can talk the talk. Two, they understand what any request they make actually takes for the other person. They know that if you're asking them to edit a video that was just shot this morning and edit it by the next morning, you're going to be up all night. A lot of people don't realize that. And so I think that it's not only effective in helping the team communicate and work together well, but you also get this benefit of if somebody is sick or quits or gets fired, you have people on the team that do maybe not at the same level, but they understand the role and how to function within it.

Now, as the team scales up, you're going to go through this process where you take these specialists who you are asking to be generalists for a short period of time, and you're going to move them back into their specialist role again as the team scales. And so, I just want to share a very quick little framework for you on how you go about expanding these roles gradually. Step one, you're going to start with the multi-roll hires. Okay? So, it's going to be somebody who is highly proficient at filming and they're really good at editing and so they're doing both of those tasks.

Okay? They're handling multiple tasks. Then what you need to do is ensure that you are documenting and defining the process. You want to make sure that all the workflow, every little tiny little thing that this individual is doing is documented and it's super clear for the next person that comes in. Once you do that, this videographer and editor, they're highly proficient at filming and good at editing.

They should document their whole process for editing. And once you hire an editor, they no longer need to edit. So, they can now focus entirely on filming. They can specialize. So, that leads us to number three, which is specialize as you scale.

Once the volume starts to increase, volume of output and volume of members on the team, you can start to split roles to improve efficiency. For example, if I am an editor, but I also have to jump up every two hours and film with the talent I'm working for, I'm losing massive efficiency in my editing. Every editor that is watching heard that the moment that you break out of the edit, it's not like you lose that 1 hour that you went to go film. you have another 30 to 45 minutes of trying to get back into that flow state that you were in.

And honestly, a lot of times it's very difficult to get back into it. In general, it doesn't take 30, 40 minutes. It might take waiting until the next day. And so, anytime that you can allow somebody to stay in that flow state, especially an editor, a designer, somebody that's doing more batch work like that, you gain so much efficiency and what I subjectively call quality. Now, in the interest of starting lean and growing intentionally, a very common question that comes up for people is, well, do I hire full-time in-house employees or do I hire contractors and agencies?

And so, my team and I, we broke down, we actually created like a whole table that we're going to walk through that contrast the benefits or potential downsides given different scenarios, different factors that we're wanting to keep in mind. And we're going to compare full-time employees versus a contractor or agency. And so I'm actually going to read this off my phone. This is something that you can download if you would like. We actually have a worksheet that you can go through and it'll help you evaluate whether you in your scenario should actually use a full-time employee or hire a contractor or agency.

Let's dive in. So the first factor that we're looking at is budget. And uh this is obviously a major uh concern especially for those of you who are in the early days, right? You're maybe a startup or you're a soloreneur and you don't have a lot that you're working with. This is where I'm at right now.

I don't have any massive budget or anything and so I'm having to think strategically about what I bring in full-time versus contract out. For full-time employees, it's a higher long-term cost. Okay? You have salary, benefits, training, right? If you bring somebody in, you need to invest in them.

And the difference between a full-time employee and a contractor here is you don't need to be training contractors. In fact, they should not require any sort of training. They should come in batteries included. They should be able to do the role immediately. You're not going to be paying for your contractors to attend a workshop or uh consume courses online.

That's something that they should be doing on their own time and their own dime. Now, on the contractor side for budget or contractor agency, they're more cost-effective for short-term projects or specialized needs. Here's a great example. This very course that we're working on, there's a full-time employee working on it and there's a contractor working on it. So, behind the camera right now is Trevor Odum and he is actually on our team, but then we are working with an amazing motion graphics artist named Michael and he is a contractor because right now I don't have the need for full-time motion graphics.

I I wish I did. that'd be awesome, but that's not the place that we're at right now. And so, if we were to bring him on full-time, we wouldn't have enough work for him anyways. And so, it's far more cost effective and operationally less intensive to be able to just bring him on on a project-by-p project basis. The next factor is workload.

Okay, so for the full-time employee, this looks like ongoing daily tasks that require their full-time attention. If you don't, like I just mentioned with the our contractor that we're working with for the motion graphics, if you don't have enough work where they're doing daily tasks, then it is most likely not a full-time role and not necessary at this point. For example, a lot of you are filming content, right? But maybe you only film once or twice a month.