19 Full-Time vs Contractors / Agencies.

Why would you have a full-time videographer if all they're doing is showing up twice a month to film with you in batches? That to me is a great scenario where you would want to hire a contractor or an agency. So the workload on the contractor agency looks more like project based, it's flexible or it's temporary work. So maybe you have a scenario where you have an event coming up, okay? And instead of just having one videographer, you need like four different people going around and capturing B-roll, testimonials, filming the keynotes, whatever.

This is a scenario where you might hire a bunch of contractors or an agency to fulfill this temporary work. The third factor that we want to keep in mind and and use to I guess determine whether or not we're going to hire somebody full-time or if we're going to bring on a contractor or agency is expertise. Now, on the full-time side, typically they have deep knowledge and a long-term investment in your company. Even if they don't come in with like uh master level knowledge, that's fine. You're going to invest in them.

And if they're the right culture fit, as we discussed throughout this whole section, they're worth it. And you're going to invest in training. You're going to provide them courses. You're going to provide them workshops. You might sit down one-on-one with them once or twice a week to really pour into them.

And that's something that you're going to get the return on because they are a full-time employee working for you. However, on the flip side, contractors, not the case. Contractors should come in as the expert. Ideally, they have specialized knowledge that may not be needed long term. So, a great example of this is in the past what I've done is hired agencies for 3 to 6 months and we bring them in and we have them school us, teach us on what they're doing, provide us the playbooks of how we can move forward without them.

I think of it like expedited learning. You're almost paying for like a fast pass to be able to move past some of the clunky learning stages uh that a lot of people take like 2 or 3 years to get down. You're able to accomplish that in potentially 6 months with a really quality agency. Now, the next factor is speed and agility. I have a lot of thoughts on this, but first I'm just going to go with what we have on the table here.

It takes time to onboard and train an employee, right? Typically, you're looking at 60 to 90 days before they're really up to speed and executing at the level that you're looking for. The beauty though is they do provide continuity and consistency. Okay? Okay.

So once they are onboarded in theory, as long as you do a good job of retaining them and you provide a good work environment where they're always able to grow and learn, they are more likely to stick there. And so you're going to have the same person working on the same projects. I'm going to kind of jump into it already, but the problem on the agency side that I've experienced is agencies do tend to have a higher turnover rate. And so, for example, when I've worked with YouTube agencies, what you'll find is you might have like seven different editors over the course of six to 12 months that work on your projects because they're turning through them.

No matter how good they are at having playbooks, checklists, all that there is a difference and and you start to notice that it's not as consistent in the quality or in the style. You might not care about that. And so, if that's not a factor that you give a about, it. Who gives a let's just hire somebody full-time in-house if you have the amount of work necessary for that. If we're looking for extreme consistency here, I probably would not recommend going the agency route.

Now, the benefit on speed and agility that you get with the contractor or agency is you do get immediate access to expertise. So, unlike a 30 60 90day onboarding plan with an employee, agencies would be fired immediately if it took 90 days for them to get up to speed. they're they're just like that is not the way that they function. And so typically what you'll find is maybe you have an onboarding call with them, but then after that they're ripping. And so if you do have something that you need done immediately, the agency or contractor route might be a better solution for the short term for you.

Now, brand consistency, what you may think of is like making sure that they have the right logos, fonts, colors, all that And that is important and I care about that. But that's not what I emphasize the most when I'm talking brand consistency. I'm thinking about like messaging or topics that maybe the the talent we're working with have no desire to ever talk about. Okay? Or maybe we know as a team that there are certain statements in context of what's being said that are fine, but if they're cut out of the context, it's going to be really bad.

That's something that you're going to be able to reinforce and establish extreme clarity on with somebody that's in-house far more than a contractor or agency. The reason why is because not only are they constantly working on projects for you, they are also involved in your internal meetings, okay? And so they're getting feedback far more consistently than an agency or contractor. So they know where they stand with the content that they are creating. and when they do it right or when they do something that goes against brand guidelines.

Typically on the contractor and agency side from my experience on brand consistency, this is one of the areas where it requires the most amount of oversight. I can't tell you the amount of times that an agency that I've worked with over the years just didn't quite get it right when it came to what we were trying to do from a brand positioning and association standpoint. even down to simple things like if the talent on camera is referencing, you know, a successful entrepreneur and a not successful entrepreneur, they might flash up two individuals that we want no association with.

And that happened very consistently when working with contractors. And the last factor in this section that we're trying to use to determine whether or not we're going to hire somebody full-time versus a contractor or agency is scalability. Full-time employees typically, I believe, are more scalable because they are more ideal for your culture and building culture and training people into leadership roles. You're able to scale the team up in my opinion because maybe you hire somebody as a video editor and over a year or two train them up to be a manager and they can oversee other video editors.

And because of that, they understand the culture and the DNA of the team. They understand the brand and what the preferences of that brand are. And so not only are they able to continue to use that and implement that within their work, they're able to train future members of the team. This is really good for consistency and scalability. Now, on the other hand, the benefit of contractors on this is actually not long-term scalability, but they are very useful in testing out a theory.

For example, if right now you are emphasizing YouTube, Instagram, and Tik Tok, and you recognize that LinkedIn is one of the platforms that you should really, really around with in 2025 because it is the only platform right now that has true organic reach. Okay, that's an interesting hypothesis. I would argue that you are correct, but you don't totally know. And so rather than going out and hiring a full-time LinkedIn specialist that might cost you a lot of money, what you could do is take three to six months and test it out with an agency or a contractor.

Then you're not making the high investment and long-term commitment to an employee and you're just doing an experiment and validating whether or not this is something worth investing in. And so in that case, maybe we would bring on a contractor to work on our LinkedIn for 3 4 months. and they're making the content. We're tracking the performance. We're tracking whether or not it's generating qualified leads for us.

But then we're also working with this contractor because they are an expert, a subject matter expert in that field on developing a playbook that then we can use internally as our guiding light for the new hire that we bring in full-time once we have validated this idea. or on the flip side, we find out that LinkedIn was not for us and we didn't go through the problem of hiring a full-time employee, incurring that cost, and then unfortunately having to part ways with them. Now, we just went through and kind of compared full-time employees versus contractors and agencies, but what I want to do is actually break down three different phases or stages that you may find yourself in and what I would recommend you do.

Now, I want to be very clear here. This is general advice, okay? I don't know what your exact scenario is. So, there's a lot of nuance to this. This is a good starting point and a good guiding light for you.

I would not necessarily completely follow this as doctrine. The best version of this is like, I'm going to dive into your team, look at everything that you're doing, look at what your goals are, and we're going to develop a whole custom plan for you. But if we're not able to do that, 99% of you we're never going to be able to do that with, I would use this as your starting point. So what we're going to do is we're going to go through three different growth stages and then the recommended hiring approach that is associated with each stage.

So stage number one is zero to one year. We're a baby at this point. And what I recommend we do is primarily hire contractors and agencies. That way we can stay lean, not invest a ton of upfront cost, but also we get to test our theories and test the platforms and see what works best for us. I really believe that there are the best platforms to be on and then there's the best platforms for you to be on.

And so what I would recommend is utilizing the agency contractor method to validate, are you cut out for LinkedIn? Are you cut out for Tik Tok? Just because everyone says Tik Tok is the best place to be. Well, if you're not good in that format, that Whatever format you're best in and most comfortable in and feel you can provide the most value in, that's what you should do. Okay.

So here we're testing and validating those theories. We're staying lean and minimizing our investment. As the founder, I recommend in this stage you are heavily involved in the content and strategy that you are making. You should be shaping what this looks like. Of course, you want to bring in contractors and agencies that you trust and that you lean on, but ultimately this is your brand and this is what you are building.

So you should be the one that is shaping what that will look like. The next growth stage is kind of like years one through three. Again, roughly there's a lot of plus minus to this, but let's just say roughly one to three years in, you are in the stage where you are transitioning critical roles in house. So what this may look like is maybe you were working with a YouTube agency for a year and maybe you have realized after that year, hey, YouTube is our top priority. This is where 70 80% of our qualified leads are coming through.

Well, in that case, maybe you want to hire a video editor inhouse. And maybe that doesn't necessarily look like firing the agency. It just looks like reducing their scope. So, instead of them doing the editing, maybe they're just doing consulting for you. So, you're pairing your video editor inhouse with the consulting power and the knowledge and expertise and experience that the agency has.

The other benefit in this is typically agencies offer multiple services. So, a lot of different YouTube agencies, for example, don't just do the editing, they also help with ideiation, scripting, and packaging. And maybe this editor that you bring in house isn't skilled at those things. And so, you take the editing off of the agency's plate and bring that in-house, but then you still have the agency doing the ideation, scripting, and packaging. And so, you're keeping them around for very specialized skills.

Now, stage number three is 3 plus years. And this is around the time sometimes people get this earlier around 2 years but typically around 3 plus years this is when you want to bring everything inhouse. Okay. So all critical roles that are high volume and necessary to the business I recommend bring it inhouse. Uh we just went through kind of like the pluses and minuses and the benefits of full-time in-house employees versus contractors.

So I think you understand the value of having an in-house team. One thing that I didn't fully touch on that I think is actually really worth highlighting here is that when I have brought roles inhouse, so previously working with an agency and then I end up bringing in house, the speed at which we are able to accomplish and finish projects increases dramatically. The level of communication goes up drastically. It's literally impossible for an agency to be able to communicate with you at the cadence that a full-time employee does because they have multiple clients that they're servicing, right?

And a lot of these agencies, their editors are overseas and so they're in a totally different time zone. Okay? So it changes the dynamic completely. The moment that you start to bring things inhouse, speed goes up like crazy. Now, what I do recommend is still at this stage, there are going to be some agencies you're going to keep on or contractors you'll keep on either for very, very specialized work or access to worlds that you don't have access to.

What do I mean by that? Well, typically a media buying agency might have a better relationship with Meta than you do or your media buyer does because maybe they're spending millions of dollars a year on Meta and so they're a more important client for that platform. If any of you out there have ran ads or done organic content consistently on a platform, you know, having a relationship with the rep there is valuable as And so if you can't get that with your full-time in-house team, you may want to maintain an agency purely for that relationship in case something goes wrong.

I also believe that agencies or contractors can be very useful to have in your rolodex available to you so that you can scale up as needed for sprints. Sometimes you might have a launch where you're going to triple the amount of creative output that you normally have and you don't want to hire full-time people for a temporary need. So, you just scale up temporarily with an agency and then you can scale back down to what you were normally doing and you don't have to fire a bunch of people. Nobody likes firing people.

That's the worst thing in the world. I would avoid it at all costs. And the easiest way to avoid it is scale up using contractors or agencies. Hello there. Before we continue on this course, I actually want to inform you about something really cool that my team and I are putting together.

We're putting together a little newsletter for you. And this is different than your average newsletter. We're not going to be sending something weekly or monthly. We're only going to send you emails when we believe that we have something that is truly valuable. Whether it's a bite-sized nugget that's going to change your perspective or a crazy in-depth playbook, we only will be sending you when we feel it will drive massive awareness for your content and scale your brand in the way that we believe is best.

So, if that sounds interesting to you, you can go sign up for it at calebston.com. If not, no harm, no foul. And with that, I hope you enjoy the rest of the course. Amazing. We've hired all these individuals.

We've identified their roles. We've made it clear to them. Now, we need to onboard them. Okay? And I will tell you from experience, a poor onboarding process leads to weeks or months of wasted productivity and a demotivated employee.

I will tell you an example. I started at a role one point in my career and I remember the first week I didn't have any of the uh tech set up right like the asauna the zooms all that none of that was set up for me I didn't have my work laptop and I had no expectations that had been given to me no deliverables that were required I didn't even know what meeting cadence I should be on I had no clarity and what happened with no clarity extreme anxiety I was constantly wondering like am I living up to the expectations that my boss has. Am I am I doing what is required?

But how can you know if you're doing that if you're never informed of what is required and what the expectations are? On the flip side, I also had a recent role where I started and I had gotten a 30 60 90 day plan given to me like 5 days before my first day. So I went into day one knowing exactly what was expected of me, knowing what my schedule looked like. I had all the equipment necessary and I was motivated to do some work. So what you get is if you prepare an employee and you allow them to know what is expected, you're going to get a highly motivated workhorse.

If you do not provide that, you're going to get a highly anxious, apathetic individual and that may only last for that onboarding period, but it might just carry into their entire employment. So if you do a structured 30 6090, it eliminates confusion and sets very clear expectations from day one. Okay. So we're going to create that 30 609day plan. This is a structured three-phase onboarding approach that ensures new hires integrate to the team smoothly and understand what the they're there for.

Think of the first 30 days as orientation and core learning. Okay? They need to gather context. Yes, of course they ask questions. You gave them the spiel in the interview process.

I'm sure you sent them some about us packet, but let's be real, that's all That's not actually how the company runs. That's not how communication occurs. That's not where they gain the insights on how to communicate with the CEO versus the CMO versus their direct manager. This is when they're understanding the company vision, the values, the workflows. This is how the the sausage is made.

This is where they learn the core processes, the systems. They see a content calendar, asset management, maybe you use a sauna or ClickUp to manage everything.