20 Onboard Your Team Effectively.

They're getting to understand and get a feel for how you operate. I often like to give smaller tasks. I don't want just, you know, knowledge acquisition to occur during this phase. I do want to give them tasks. One, because I want to make sure that they are able to execute.

You know, technical assessments are great, but you really learn a lot in the first 30, 60, 90 days about an employee. I want to make sure they're doing that, but I also want to give them wins and momentum that they can build upon. I truly believe if you nailed the opening 30 days, you have such a better employee employer relationship. Also, don't just leave them on an island to themsel and let them just figure it out. There's very rare cases where that is the right move.

Maybe if that's what the role is actually like all the time, okay, sure, you could justify that to me. But if the role is not going to be like that, make sure that you do regular check-ins with this individual. Ensure that they understand what they're working on. Understand what is happening on a meeting. They understand who's in the meeting, what the process looks like, what the context of this project is.

Anything that is necessary for them to be able to operate efficiently, you should be providing in the check-in. Also, you can be asking them how are they feeling? Are they confused? Do they feel overwhelmed, underwhelmed? Do they need more information?

Do they need to chunk things down a little bit? This is where you get to get a feel and a gauge of where they're at and how they're responding to these opening 30 days. For example, if you hire an editor, this might look like them shadowing your senior editor or some experienced team member and ultimately they're reviewing high-erforming content from the past. Maybe this editor they're shadowing is walking them through their top five uh YouTube videos of all time and explaining why they got to that level and how they're implementing those frameworks and those structures to future videos.

And maybe potentially it's working on internal projects or rough cuts of an edit that you review internally and that don't have high stakes of going out publicly. All right. Then you have the 60-day, the next 30 days. Well, what are we doing there? This is where we want to have them taking more ownership.

What does that look like? Well, they begin executing independently on their core responsibilities. They're no longer just doing small tasks or just shadowing. They're actually owning tasks of their own. They're also developing their own workflows and systems within the team.

We have teamwide process and workflow, but then within that, individuals have their own way of operating. Every editor has a different way that they set up a file, right? Some editors like to go through all the A-roll and then start adding music and then B-roll and blah blah blah. Some of them like to go section by section and they go A-roll, B-roll, music, graphics, and then on to the next section. Allow them to build their own workflow and utilize that for the greatest efficiency that they can have.

In these next 30 days, at the 60 mark, you're wanting to also analyze their work. Look at how they're going about their workflow, the process, their communication, and the final output, and give them feedback. This is where you can start to reinforce the good things and help correct the things that aren't as effective or helpful for the team or process they're working on. An example here is a an editor would probably be editing full YouTube videos, uploading them, and then we would be reviewing the performance and giving them feedback accordingly.

And then the last 30 days, this is the 90-day mark, right? So we have the 30, the 60, and the 90. And this is chunked down into 30 days at a time. And this is the last section of their official onboarding. We are fully integrating them into the team and giving them a high level of contribution.

No longer are they working on small tasks or owning their own task. They're owning the big tasks. whatever the number one most important thing that we listed on the responsibilities on their job description, they are now owning that entirely. This also looks like owning it entirely with minimal supervision. Okay?

So, instead of me coming in and checking in on them during the edit five or six times, I might check in with them at the beginning like I would any editor, maybe a midway point and then upon completion. We're also now at the point where they're demonstrating actual results, like true impact they're having against their KPIs that we're holding them accountable for. You know, if they're a YouTube editor, watch time. Is the watch time at least average, if not better than average, what our normal performance is, or if it's slightly below, are they improving the watch time each video they're doing?

I always am looking for rate of progress. Are they at least improving? If they're not where we want them to be, are they moving in that direction? And finally, at the end of the 90 days, you want to actually conduct a 90-day review. Sit down with them, walk through everything that they've done, tell them all the wins they've had, all the things that you love, the way they communicated, the way Sarah said to John, you know, the feedback on the edit, she gave it so well.

Great job, Sarah. Reinforce that and make sure they continue to do those things. But also, there may be things that you noticed in the opening 90 days that weren't as desirable or as effective, and you want to correct those. The last thing you want to do is just ignore a problem and just hope that it goes away. They don't go away, they get bigger.

And so, at this 90-day check-in, this is where you want to give them some very real feedback. If there's something that they cannot continue doing, tell them now. If you do not tell them now and they continue doing it, that is not their fault. That is your fault. It is your job at this point to inform them of any behavior changes that need to occur.

So, as an example, at this point, if we have a content strategist at 90 days in, they should be identifying high performing content and what we should double down on or how we should reformat it for another platform. They should be proposing new content ideas, not just reviewing what is working. They should be innovating and coming up with fresh new ideas. And they should be optimizing distribution for maximum reach. and they should be able to sit down with you and take feedback on what they were doing right on all of those and what they need to change on all of those.

So now that we have the 306090, well that's amazing, but that's not the only part of onboarding. That is a piece of the pie. That is a tool in the belt, but it is not the entire belt. So if we want to make onboarding seamless and effective, one, we want to provide a clear plan before day one. So this is sending onboarding materials.

This is like a company handbook, a vision deck, a a strategy deck, whatever that looks like for you. And the 306090 that we just went through. Number two is you're going to assign a mentor or onboarding buddy. Often times, if you don't assign this, they will make their own friend there, right? And that's great, but you want to make sure to also intentionally pair them with somebody who is going to really help them in the role that they have.

Ideally, somebody who has a lot more context on the organization and team and how they function. typically a more senior individual. This allows them to speed ramp their learning but also have somebody that is a guaranteed or verified point of contact for when they have questions because in the beginning we have a multitude of questions and typically we're afraid or embarrassed to ask them. If you help assign this individual and you clarify upfront that this is what they are here for is to help you ask questions or help you answer questions and that there's nothing wrong with asking questions.

it's actually encouraged to well then you set them up for success and instead of them sitting there trying to solve a problem for 2 hours they might solve it in 5 minutes asking Sarah what the answer is. Now number three is to schedule regular check-ins. You're not going to have a pulse on how this person is doing and how it's going if you're not checking in with them regularly and getting an update. I prefer typically in the first month to do multiple check-ins per week. So maybe it looks like instead of one 30 minute meeting, it's three 10-minute meetings, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, end of day.

And you're just checking in to see what was the most interesting thing that you learned today. What was uh the most confusing thing that happened this week that I can maybe answer? What roadblocks are in front of you that I can bulldoze through to make your job easier. This is also an incredible opportunity to celebrate wins and reinforce great actions. If they're a new hireer and you're on a call, a brainstorm meeting, let's say, and you're beating up a YouTube video idea, and they contribute a thought, even if it's not a good one, but they actually speak up, man, immediately give them daps for that.

Like, give them all the love in the world for that because that is the kind of action and behavior you want to encourage, especially a new hire. I remember there was a hire that I made a couple years ago and I want to say like day one he was sitting in a meeting where nobody asked his opinion on it. He volunteered it and in some organizations they might not like that. I immediately stood up and gave the dude a high five. I was like this is incredible.

You're day one. You're nervous as hell. You don't know anybody. Nobody knows you. Nobody knows your background or skill set and you're already contributing to the overall discussion.

That's what we're hiring people for. We're hiring people to contribute, not sit and be a fly on the wall. And number four is kind of a bonus. I don't believe it's fully necessary, but it's definitely very helpful, but if you're resource constrained, I would save this for when you're at a bigger scale. Number four is building an onboarding portal or resource hub.

And this can be fancy like, you know, using some software to automate the onboarding or it can be as simple as a Google Drive folder that has your vision deck, your strategy deck, context on the team, SOPs, playbooks, video tutorials on workflows, Q&A document with the founder or CEO to give more context on the organization. Anything that you feel would help make this person's life within the org easier can live in this hub. And again, it can be a very simple Google Drive folder. It doesn't have to be anything fancy and complex.

Just like in the hiring process, we want to define a role clearly. We also want to ensure that once somebody is onboarded, we also make sure to continually define their role clearly because as we know, roles evolve, process evolves, needs evolve on the team. And so as those evolutions occur, you should be continually updating the role description. And one of the biggest mistakes I see on teams is overlapping responsibilities without clarity around who is owning what. And so what ends up happening there is if two people both think that they own the same task, often times they assume the other person's going to do it and then nobody does it.

And so what you want to do is if you're going to have two people working on a task, make sure it's very clear what they're each owning and what the expectations of output are from each of them. hold them accountable. I like to set KPIs for accountability, which removes ambiguity in the performance of their job expectations. Here's an example. If you have a community manager and their task is to analyze metrics, right?

They're supposed to look at how's engagement, are we getting enough impressions, are we driving enough traffic to our website, etc., etc. But then you also ask editors to do the same thing. One, I mean, it it seems incredibly inefficient and pointless, but two, eventually you get to the point where they're doing redundant work, and what I have observed is they both get frustrated by it, and then they both don't do the task, and then nobody does it, and it's not getting done. And so, there are going to be tasks that you're going to have overlap.

That's impossible, right? Like, there's going to be tasks where multiple people have to own different micro tasks that ladder up to the big one. I understand there's nuance to it, but I would really encourage you if you are going to have two people tackling the same task, make sure there is clarity on what is expected from each of them. So, we went through all of this onboarding but what does this actually mean for us? What does this give us as a result?

Well, I'll tell you. You get faster ramp up time. People are actually going to get up to speed and able to execute on their role at a high level much, much faster. I can't tell you early on in my career how many different roles that I took that it took me like four or five months to actually get to a point where I was effectively creating for the team that I was on. Not necessarily my fault, but just due to a lack of a structured onboarding process that the organization did not have in place.

Number two, the most important thing, stronger retention. It costs a lot of money to lose an employee, like two and a half times what they actually costed you originally. Employees who feel supported and cared for and actually have clear understanding of what is expected of them stay longer and perform better. Number three is you typically get more ownership and initiative. Clarity from day one fosters confidence and independent problem solving.

This is somebody who if a problem comes up they're not just immediately running and tapping on your shoulder and being like Sarah how do I solve this? Right? They are somebody who is going to if they come to you they're going to come to you with proposed solutions. So the key takeaway here is I want you to change the way you think of onboarding. It's not about introducing process and introducing team members.

It's about setting up new hires to win early and often which benefits both them and yourself. All right, we have defined what we need. We've defined the roles. We've hired the individuals and we have onboarded them effectively. Congratulations.

You are killing it. But now we have to develop and retain this high performing team, right? We brought all these amazing individuals in, but we need to make sure that we keep them and we give them an environment that makes them want to stay and feel like they are growing and empowered rather than stifled and capped at their growth. A strong team is not just about hiring the right people, though that is very, very important. It's also about developing them into leaders, lining up opportunities with their individual long-term goals, not just the companies, and ensuring that they never stop growing.

Always giving them opportunity to further their growth and see that where they are right now, the ceiling is always moving up. So, they're never limited with the amount of growth they can have within your team. If your team is not evolving, you're not scaling, you're just maintaining. One of the first things I can recommend in trying to retain employees and keep them on your team and keep them feeling satisfied and like they're growing is creating a culture of ownership. A lot of individuals that have creative teams out there really believe heavily, I would argue too heavily in SOPs and checklists.

Now they are very important, right? Checklists ensure quality control. SOPs ensure that we are operating in a very similar function and similar way when operating on a process. Okay, so this is super important. The problem is if you build an army, I like to call it a checklist army.

You're building individuals that only follow instruction and don't take ownership for themselves. I believe that high performing teams thrive when they take real ownership of their role. Instead of waiting for direction from you, they are taking action. They're solving problems. They're innovating on content and ideas themselves.

If you are the only one making decisions, you don't have a team. You just have a bunch of assistants that are running around doing your bidding. You have what I call a topdown approach rather than a bottom up approach. So, here is how you encourage ownership on your team instead of doing what we all want to do because we care about everyone on our team. I mean, every person I've ever hired, and whether or not you you with this, I don't give a I love them to death.