21 Develop and Retain High Performers.

I care about every person I've ever hired an insane amount. And so what sometimes occurs then is you want to solve problems for them. You want to make their life easier, but that them up. So what you want to do to create a culture of ownership is you actually want to not solve their problems. When they come to you with a question or a problem, instead of being like, "Here's the answer.

Here's the solution right away." You put it back on them. Ask them, "Well, how would you handle this? If I got hit by a bus right now, how would you handle this?" If I was out sick for 3 weeks, how would you handle it? If I went on vacation for two months, what would you do to solve this problem? Oftentimes, they know the answer or they're creative enough to be able to solve it.

Typically, what you're finding is they might be being just slightly lazy or more than likely they've been in a previous environment where their leader did solve all their problems because their leader didn't trust them. And if you start noticing that they just bring a bunch of problems to you, encourage them to stop bringing problems and start bringing solutions. So if they're constantly asking you how to solve something, encourage them to move from asking you how to solve to being like, "Which of these two or three solves would you recommend I try?" That is going to be far better.

But then again, I would recommend that you put it back on them and say, "Well, which of the three do you think is going to be most effective?" And third, give them autonomy with accountability. Meaning, empower them to make a mistake. If you're going to ask them, how would you go about solving it? They present the idea. You might know that's not going to work.

But if it's not absolutely missionritical, I would encourage you let them fail. They will learn so much more from that than from always getting it right based on what you say. And the crazier part, and a lot of people don't realize this, but they are paying attention to what you are doing. They're seeing here that you trust them and you trust them despite a potentially not correct or not ideal outcome. When you do this, you empower them to gain confidence and continue to solve problems.

And when they realize that there's not a consequence to them getting it wrong and that you're just going to encourage them to go about it differently next time, they have no fear. And when you don't have fear, that is when creativity thrives. Creativity is not only important for creating content, it's important for solving problems. As an example, I once had a creative director who was technically incredible, right? A a brilliant mind, an incredible strategist.

But I'm gonna be honest with you, they lacked a lot of personal skills and ability to read another person in the moment. And so a lot of times when we would be filming with the talent we worked for, this individual would ask me, "How do I handle this situation?" And a lot of times it was in the moment, right? And so instead of them just like verbally asking me, they were texting me. And I started to notice that I was answering it always. I was solving it for them.

And what I realized was three months into doing that, they had not improved. They always listened to me. They acted on what I said, but they kept asking questions at the same rate. And so what did I do? I started saying, "Well, how would you handle this?" And sometimes this person would say something that I knew was going to piss the talent we were working with off, like that, potentially interrupting the entire shoot, and maybe we wouldn't actually get a video that day.

short-term bummer, long-term gain. What ended up happening is he learned from his mistakes and started to be able to figure out how to solve the problem on his own to the point now where he is leading the initiative for that individual and knows how to engage with them and handle any problems that come up very effectively without texting me. Now, we've identified that we want to build and empower these leaders, right? Well, how do we develop people as a leader? I believe that teaching is actually an ultimate hack here.

Now, not in maybe the way that you're thinking. I love team training, but I don't like to lead it myself. Not all the time. Of course, I'm going to do team trainings here and there. Uh it's important to hear from your leader and to hear straight from the horse's mouth.

But I actually believe that the best version of this is when you empower the team to do team trainings. Okay? There's so many benefits to this and we're going to go through many of them. So, why does this work? Well, I think a lot of us have probably heard the traditional saying, but it's traditional for a reason.

It's true. You learn a lot by teaching. And so, giving people on your team the ability to train others and teach others allows them the opportunity to learn more about that, to really ingrain that learning into their repertoire, into their utility belt. It teaches mastery. If you can't actually explain something, you don't fully understand it.

You might be able to do the action. An example is editors. A very early entry-level editor who isn't super experienced or technically proficient if you ask them, why did you cut this video in this cadence, right? Why did you go 12 frames, 36 frames, 12 frames, 36 frames as a cadence, in a sequence? I got really technical there, so please just ignore it if you don't speak editor lingo.

But if that's the case and you ask them why they did that, a lot of beginners and novice editors will say it felt right. And that's a totally acceptable answer, but it's not a technically sound one. An editor who truly understands would say, I was training the audience to understand and expect the cadence that I was going to edit in because the next scene was going to be very dramatic and I was going to break that pattern. And by training the audience to get used to cuts on that pattern, when we deviate from the pattern, it emphasized that moment.

That would be an editor who is very technically proficient, experienced, and understands the why behind why they did the cut. And the magical third thing that you get here, which is absolutely incredible, is you reveal hidden strengths and passions. I can't tell you how many different times that I'd have somebody on one of my teams, they would do a training on something that I had no idea that they were really proficient in and were passionate about. You learn all these interesting things, like people that love sound design, and all of a sudden you realize, oh yeah, that's right.

All your edits are really good with sound design. Or you discover that somebody's really passionate about storytelling, and you realize, huh, now that they think about it, all of your videos actually do follow a very, very specific and strategic storytelling framework. Holy And then you get to spread that information to the rest of the team. And what happens is they start to develop their brand within the team. And so if somebody does a presentation on storytelling, for example, and George, another editor, has a question about it, they're going to go to that person.

And so what that does is increase efficiency. Rather than sitting and trying to solve a problem on your own, you know who on the team is the subject matter expert to go to to solve the problem with. Now, how do you actually implement this? Well, I would recommend that you conduct a weekly training. Rotate between the different members of your team on who leads the training weekly.

I also recommend setting up what is called like a mentorship loop. This is where you take somebody that is more senior on the team and you pair them with a more junior level individual. This doesn't mean uh seniority as far as tenure, but as far as skill set. So maybe you have a videographer that's been on the team for a year and then you hire a brand new videographer who is far more technically proficient. I would recommend pairing them together.

The cool byproduct of that is the new videographer, she can help train him on technical proficiencies and he can help train her on proficiencies on how to operate within the organization and how processes work. You get a win-win on both sides. Now, oftentimes when you're hiring an employee, we're humans, so we're selfish. We're thinking about what's in it for us. What are we trying to get out of this person?

How can we maximize the returns from this human? But what I would recommend is gain understanding on what their long-term career goals are and start to line up opportunities that you give them with those long-term goals. If they want to be in a place of leadership or they want to hold an executive role and they're an editor right now, well, something that would be very good for you to do is give them those training opportunities so they can gain the skill of communication and presenting. Often times, especially with creative teams, there's this like myth out there that, oh, creatives don't want to talk to anybody.

they just want to be locked in a room and d and I believe that that is true but my belief is the why behind that is because they've been trained they've been told that's how they are they work for an organization and the organization never gives them the opportunity to communicate with clients or with the whole team they never give them presenting opportunities because they say well creatives don't like to do that so we're not going to give them the opportunity whatever their desired outcome is for their career it is your job if you want to hold on to them for a long time to make sure that you give them opportunities to grow towards that. If you have somebody on your team that has expressed what they want to accomplish and what you are doing and the opportunities you're providing them are actually going in the opposite direction, what you're going to have is somebody who becomes very dissatisfied with their role and will want to leave at any opportunity they have. Stop being like most leaders and start knowing what your people what your team wants.

This is why creative teams lose great people. It's usually not because of like the work output and stuff. It's because they no longer see themselves growing towards where they want to be. In fact, often times they see themselves growing away from where they're wanting to be. And that is the exact opposite of what a human is going to prefer and choose to do because ultimately, like I said at the top, we are all selfish and we want to accomplish what we want to accomplish.

Make sure you align the work and opportunities you give your team with what they want to accomplish. So, I recommend doing this by conducting one-on ones. And here are a couple of great questions that I love to ask during a one-on-one. Question number one, very, very basic and obvious, but most of you don't ask it. What's your long-term career goal?

Shocker. If you find that out, the amazing thing is you can give them opportunities that move them towards that that also serve the company. Where do you see yourself after this? Do you see yourself at another company? Do you see yourself starting another company?

Do you want to jump to a different industry? Are you wanting to experiment with different roles? What is it that you're wanting to accomplish directly after this? You've already asked what their long-term career goal is, but between then and now, what do you see? And third, what skills do you want to develop?

Is there anything that you've been interested in? Right? If they're a video editor, but they're really passionate about motion graphics, how cool would it be to be able to give them more opportunities? Maybe you're not able to make them a full-time motion designer because that's not what's required on your team for the content you're producing. But maybe what you can do is say, "Well, I mean, it would be cool if we made our lower thirds a little bit more fancy and we did some cool transitions and maybe we got a little bit crazier with how we animate text." Okay, cool.

You're giving them an opportunity to hone in on the skill that they care about most and where they're wanting to go. And then what you're going to get as a byproduct of that is them sticking around a lot longer. So the goal here is ultra simple. Make sure you align their growth with what they're doing daily. If they feel like they're just checking boxes and doing tasks, they will eventually check the out.

A really good example of this is I had somebody who was at a manager level on one of my teams that really expressed in the opening like literally in the interview process expressed that they eventually wanted to be a CEO and they wanted to uh have a pretty large organization that they ran and at this point they were at a manager level and so what did I do? I started to give them more opportunities to oversee the team or a section of the team entirely. So, not just a manager level, but I gave them a lot of the responsibilities that I had without necessarily giving them a director title right away.

One, just to prove that they can do it and make sure that we were putting them in the right spot, but I wanted to give them the opportunity to start to hone in on skills that were necessary and more importantly to be able to identify deficiencies they had that they needed to work on to eventually get to the point where they would be a CEO. Now, your jackof alltrades, your generalists or your specialists who are willing to generalize, that's going to work in the early days. And it's actually not only going to work, it's necessary.

You can't hire specialists entirely from day one, unless you know, you just got unlimited money and really deep pockets. But even then, I wouldn't advise doing that. But eventually, you get to a point where specialists are the way that you're going to actually drive real results, right? We talked in the content section about specializing content to specific platforms. We talked about how in the beginning you make content like you might make a short and then you distribute that on all the different platforms.

YouTube shorts, Instagram reels, Tik Tok, Facebook reels, LinkedIn video tab. But the best case version of this is you take that same asset, that same raw footage and re-edit it, remake it contextual to each platform specialization. Well, the same thing is going to happen with your team. In order to make that content special to the platform, you're going to need the individual to specialize in that platform. Here's why this matters.

When you move from the generalist workflow to a specialist workflow, you get individuals who execute at much higher levels. They gain massive efficiency by doing the same thing or relatively same thing over and over and over rather than hat jumping. They really iron out all the kinks, all the weird inefficiencies. They develop beautiful workflows on this because they're doing it all day every day. Also, this leads to mastery, which reduces the amount of revisions and back and forth that you have to have with your team.

You would not believe how effective it is and efficient it is if you can eliminate two rounds of revisions across all your editors on your team. Sure, in a week that was nice, but add up all that time over a year and you're saving weeks of your time. The benefit for the individual is that specialists have way more long-term career value. They are able to earn far more throughout their career because they are a specialist. Companies will pay far more for that than somebody who is decent or proficient at everything.

So, by you investing in them as a specialist, you know, the reality is is unfortunately there's all these people that we love that we have on our team and we want them forever, but they're not going to stay with you forever. The the nature of a career and of a job is that there is an expiration date most of the time. It is my goal if you join my team, I want to set you the up so that when you go to the next spot, you are 10 times better than you could have ever imagined. And the way you do that is you promote specialization.

they will typically be far happier and earn way more throughout their career. Here's an example of this, and this is pretty typical that I find in creatives, but specifically short form editors for whatever reason. Trevor on my team, I hired him about three three and a half years ago now. And I remember we brought him on as a short form editor. about I'm probably going to get this wrong, but let's call it 9 to 12 months in, he started getting to the point where he had mastered how we do short form and was absolutely crushing it and started noticing the editors that were working on long form content and how sexy that looked and how interesting and shiny that was.

And around 14 to 16 months in, he started vocalizing to me how he was considering wanting to move from being a short form editor to a long form editor. Now, a little bit of context for you is at this point, we had reached a serious level of mastery to where he was the go-to guy on the team for shorts. In fact, so much so that every other short form editor whenever they ran into an issue would go to Trevor to help solve the problem. And so what I proposed to Trevor is two different paths. I said, "Dude, like you're an A player.

You're a gangster. I want to keep you around and happy. So I'll move you over to long form if that's what you want." Now, it won't happen overnight because we are a business and we have needs, but we can transition you if that's what you want. The way this will work is if you move over to long form, you're going to go to the bottom of the totem pole. You're going to the very bottom of the ladder.

Okay? Like there's already some serious gangsters over there and you're not as experienced in it. So, you're going to be starting from zero. Now, on the flip side, you could continue down this editing short form path. Right now, you're the top dog.

And I see very soon in your future you managing all of the short form editors. not only being the person that they come to with their problems and helping them solve and the one who always ends up having the most viewed clips, but you actually manage them. Now, a little bit more additional context. This was young as He was 22 when we were having this conversation. A 22-year-old managing editors that were like six, seven years older than him potentially.

This was a crazy crossroads for him. And I told him, I said, I believe that if you specialize, you will go into a place of leadership that there's not a world where you'll get there if you go over to YouTube. That will take years for you to establish here. We're already 2 months out from this. And if you go up to that level, then eventually if you want to do a lateral move over to long form, you move over there in a totally different position.

And so you're not starting from zero. You're starting from a place of leadership. it's a completely different position for you to take. And so he chose to stick with short form. Now, we gave him some long form edits here and there because he's a creative guy and he wanted to do it to the best of my ability.

Whenever somebody on my team vocalizes an interest or something they're passionate about and want to do, I want to do my best to give them that opportunity. That's just how I like to roll. But we focused on short form. And guess what? He not only was promoted to senior editor, he was then promoted to lead editor.

So he was promoted the most out of anybody on the team and he was managing three different editors at the age of 22 and 23. It was absurd. Okay, he only got that because he chose to specialize. And now we're at a point in his career where he is starting to expand and be more of a generalist again. And so the way that this will most likely work is he'll have a couple of years or a season of time where he does more activities and then he'll focus again and he'll pick probably one lane or two that he goes more narrow and gains more mastery on.

It's very similar if you notice to the accordion framework or method that I use for content, but you can do the same thing with your career. Another thing that I would highly encourage you to do is not only utilize your team members to educate and train each other, but invest in strategic education opportunities for your team. For example, if there is a workshop on YouTube retention editing that you can pay for with somebody who you know worked really closely with Mr. Beast, for example, I would highly recommend that you invest in that.

And then what you do is instead of you taking that course, you assign one or two of your team members to do it. Here's the pro tip. Don't just have them go and attend and consume the workshop or the course. Have them then turn it into a team training that they present to the rest of the team. Again, we've already gone over this helps them retain the information far more, helps them develop mastery, and then they're able to share all of those insights and information with the rest of the team rather than hogging it all for themselves.

So, we've talked about doing regular check-ins, but what does that look like? Well, it looks like running effective one-on- ones. I believe that if you only check in when something's going wrong, you've already lost. Consistent, structured feedback is what keeps people from checking out. It's what keeps people engaged and feeling like this is an area where I'm growing and my leadership cares about me and cares that I'm actually developing and growing rather than just staying stagnant and letting me rot.

In order to do this, you need to run effective 101 ones. So, here is how I recommend you go about running effective one-on- ones. Number one, talk about the workload and blockers. How's your workload look right now? What's slowing you down?

Do you need any extra resources or support? Is there anything currently getting in the way of you accomplishing your job? Can I bulldoze through any roadblocks to make your job easier? Revisit their long-term goals. You're crushing this thing.

How do we set you up for the next step? What is it that you've been wanting to learn but haven't had the time to invest in? Are there any interests that line up with your long-term goals that we're not currently leveraging right now that we're not giving you opportunities to gain skill in that maybe we can implement that would be effective for our content? I had a content strategist who was unbelievably good at running Tik Tok, ideulating, and creating a lot of engagement on that platform. They had expressed interest in being a creative director.

And so I started giving them opportunities to begin developing bigger campaigns and presenting those campaigns. Not just developing them, but presenting them to myself and to the talent that we were filming with. The reason why this happened though was in our regular one-on- ones, I was asking them, "Well, okay, you've come in, you're killing it as a strategist here. You own this platform. You've told me you want to be a creative director.

Right now, none of what you're doing is really lading up to that. you're very much an individual contributor here. And so what we did is in our 101, we developed a plan of how they were going to start taking on bigger tasks that involved more people. So when you're developing a campaign and pitching a campaign, you're not thinking about just your sole contribution, you're thinking about how the entire team feeds into that campaign because it was a multiplatform approach. And in doing so, what we allow for is not only for them to gain the skills of thinking strategically of how to involve other people, but how to persuade other people to get involved and how to think about workflow and process, ultimately lading up to their long-term goal and vision of being a creative director.

None of this would have happened if we didn't actually do regular check-ins to see, are they actually feeling like they're moving closer to their desired outcome? and am I following what I preach and actually giving them opportunities to be able to hone in those skills. So, here are the final takeaways on this section. Developing a team that grows with you. Number one, push ownership down.

If you're making every decision, you don't have a team. You have a bunch of assistants. Let them start to own the process and solve their problems. Number two, make leadership a habit. Teaching and leading trainings should be part of the job, not your job, their jobs.

Okay? Typically, this is an afterthought. You want to make this a priority. Number three, tie their growth to the company's growth. Let them see how what they're doing contributes to the overall growth of the company and the team.

Especially with content teams, a lot of times they're like the weirdos in the cage in the corner. It's like, don't feed the crazy creatives, right? No, you want to show them how what they're doing is leading to the revenue and profitability that your organization has. Number four, go deep, not wide. As soon as you can, promote specialization.

This is beneficial for you and your team as well as them, the individual. This makes them far more valuable to any future employer. And number five, none of this is going to happen. You're not going to be able to measure progress if you don't do structured check-ins. So have the one-on ones.

Give them feedback. Ask them for feedback on how you're doing as a leader. If you choose not to make time for feedback, you'll eventually have to make time for hiring. If you create a culture of ownership, of growth, and something where they know where they're headed, and they actually feel like the opportunities they're getting are lining up with their career goals, you're not just going to have a team of employees. You're going to have a team that wants to build and can build with you.

All right, the final section on building your team is building a strong team culture. This is so important. I will not be able to emphasize it enough, but I'm going to do my best. I'll tell you this, a good team culture is not built by accident. A lot of team cultures are built by accident, but a good one is not.

It's shaped by intentional decisions that you make every day through leadership, actions, and how you communicate with the team. And if you do it right, it's not just a buzzword that everyone likes to talk about on Instagram to sound like a thought leader. It actually becomes the operating system of how your team works and how you make decisions. This is how you grow. In building this strong culture, you need to define and then once you've defined, you need to reinforce the core values.

A strong culture starts with clear core values that guide your hiring, your decision-m, and your day-to-day behavior. These are not just words up on a wall or that exist on your website. These are literally what you live by and how you decide what you will and will not do. So, here's how to reinforce your core values once you have established them. Make sure you hire based on alignment with those core values, not just alignment on skill set.

Again, like we said earlier, skills can be trained. Values very, very hard to change. Number two, recognize and reward actions that reflect company values. One of the best ways to do this is to publicly celebrate team members who are actively upholding the values that you've defined as a company. And this can look like a message in in Slack, shouting somebody out in front of the whole team.

This can look like during a full team meetup recognizing them and giving them a gift card or an award. There's so many different ways to do this, but we all know the feeling when you are publicly recognized for something that you did well.