22 Build a Strong Team Culture.

It feels good and it makes you want to do more of it. And number three, don't be the leader that says all this and does completely different. Those are the worst. They breed no trust and everyone eventually wants to leave that team because they know that they are part of horseshit. That's just the reality.

And there's a lot of these leaders out there. The majority of people that lead a company preach these core values but don't actually uphold them themselves. Lead by example. I remember a really good story actually is um back in my uh church days, I was on a worship team. The worship team is like the band that plays the music before the sermon happens.

And I remember the youth pastor said something so powerful to me and it stuck and it it's how I've thought of myself in any leadership role to date. Caleb, when you are up on stage playing bass in the worship team, everyone in the youth group is looking at you as an example. And whatever you do, they're going to do 10 times. And how I apply that to leadership is if I am slow to respond, they're going to be slower to respond. If I show up late to meetings, they're going to show up really late to meetings.

If we're a remote work environment and I show up on calls all the time in my PJs, guess what they're going to do? Show up in their PJs. And maybe that's fine in your company culture, but maybe it's not. Whatever you do, they're going to do times 10. Lead by example.

If you have a team that is operating in a way that you do not like, take a look at yourself and how you're operating as the first point. More than likely, you are leading them by example in the wrong way. And just because you're the leader doesn't mean that you can hold yourself to a different standard. If anything, you need to be the one that holds the standard and sets it and maintains that bar as high as possible. So, for example, maybe contrary to some of the like, you know, hardcore examples I've been using here, Patagonia has a really beautiful team culture.

They prioritize environmental responsibility, integrity, and work life balance. And guess what? They actually do it. So, here's how they reinforce those core values. They hire for alignment, right?

They prioritize candidates who are passionate about sustainability and outdoor activism. That's the DNA of the company and the brand. And so they want to make sure that the people that work on it also are in alignment with those values. Number two is they recognize and reward employees. Employees who contribute to the environmental causes or develop innovative solutions for sustainability are actually publicly celebrated and even receive grants to further their initiatives whether it's within or outside of the organization.

And for leading by example, their founder sets the standard by literally running the company with the same principles that he lives by. Giving 1% of sales to the planet. He even closes the office on powder days to give employees the opportunity to go serve or go skiing. And he treats his work like it's a mission, not just an activity that he's doing to get a paycheck. Now, the next point here is to be transparent about decisions.

You're never going to have a scenario where everyone agrees with every decision that you make. That is okay. But what I would recommend is trying your very best to provide them the understanding of why you made the decision. The quickest way that leaders lose trust is keeping their team in the dark when there's a lot of changes occurring. So, here's what transparency actually looks like in leadership.

If a project gets canled, especially last minute, explain why and how it impacts the bigger picture. I remember one time having an editor who had been working 13 hours a day on a project for probably 5 or 6 days straight. Huge edit. She had put so much effort into it. It was an incredible piece.

But the person we were editing it for didn't like it. But it sucked for this editor. And instead of me just cancing the upload and not giving them the why, I explain to them how we want to create a an environment for the talent we're working with where they trust us. And the way that we earn that trust is if there is a piece of content that they don't like and they don't want to be put out, we abide by that. We honor that.

If we do that, they are going to feel more comfortable opening up and revealing more and being more transparent and vulnerable with their emotions in future content because they know if they don't like it, it's not going to go out. But in that scenario, rather than just leaving her in the dark and being like, "Hey, I know you spent 6 days, 13 hours a day working on this and now last minute I'm coming in and cutting this." I explained the why of why we were cutting it and why this impacts future content and how it'll make our team more effective moving forward. Number two is own your mistakes.

Man, if I could say this one like 20 times in a row, I would. I can't tell you how many times that I've had leaders in my life that make a mistake and just brush it off or acknowledge it as it's like, "Oh, well, that was part of the plan. That was intentional. We meant to do that all along." Everyone sees through your They already know that you weren't intentionally trying to make that mistake. That was not part of the plan.

Don't around and try and make yourself posture yourself to be smarter than you are. Just to own it when you're wrong. The amount of times that you're going to gain respect from people when you do that is zero. When you actually own your mistake and you admit it to the team, the amount of respect you gain is infinite. It's unmeasurable.

I am not in any way perfect. Very much flawed. But I really always try to do my best. When I something up, even when it's small, I immediately try to own it with the team. I try to be the first person to call it out because we've all been in the scenario where somebody messes something up and you're on a group call and you're all kind of like vaguely hinting at what happened, but not I want to be the person that immediately says, "No, I this up.

I can't believe I did it. It caused all these problems. Here's how we're going to move forward." And lastly, I highly recommend communicate pivots as soon as you can. Don't wait until the last minute. A lot of leaders, I think, procrastinate on this conversation because they're afraid of how the team is going to respond.

If you have to make some big pivot in how the team is going to operate, in output, in process, in cadence, whatever, it's a freaky thing. Like, humans get used to it. We're creatures of habit, right? And so, when you come in to the team and say, "We're going to do things completely differently." It sucks. Do it immediately.

The sooner that you do it, the more time you give your team to be able to digest this and accept the fact that they're going to have five times the amount of videos needing to go out per week rather than telling them the week before that you're going to do it. Ultimately, the theme you're noticing here is transparency. Be more transparent with your team. Share more with them. The more that you trust them, the more that they will return the favor and trust you.

Another great thing that you can do as a leader is pay attention to what your team cares about. If somebody on your team mentions the fact that they love Legos, maybe you take note of that and on their birthday you send them the Millennium Falcon uh Lego set, right? Like something absurd like that that shows that like you care about them outside of work and you pay attention to what they care about and are passionate about beyond just editing. For example, another thing that I love to do that I think is very contrary to the majority of leaders is if one of my team members mentions to me that they're sick, rather than being skeptical and not believing them and assuming that they're just trying to, you know, cash in the day, take the day off, I actually like to go a really far.

I like to send them soup and bread or a pack of juices from like Prest or something of that nature. I want to show them that I care about them because I do. It's not just an act. It's actually just taking what is in here in my heart and putting it external. And this is amazing because if they're truly sick, cool.

You're helping them get better. You show that they care and you give them the freedom to be able to take the day to relax and rest rather than being anxious the whole time. And on the flip side, if they are that very unique individual that's lying, they're going to feel really guilty about it and probably not want to do it the next time. And so either way, you win. And lastly, I believe that you inspire loyalty in your team by providing them opportunities to grow.

We're humans. We're selfish. We want to look out for our self-interest and what we get out of it. And that's okay. So, make sure that on your team, you provide individuals the ability to scratch their selfish itch and grow.

Ultimately, the best teams aren't just efficient, they're invested in the mission. And this only happens when people see a future for themselves within the organization. And they only see a future for themselves within the organization if they see continual growth. So here are three different ways that you can help build a culture of growth. Like I've previously said, but I'm going to emphasize it right now.

Make sure to tie what individuals are doing to how the company is growing. Make sure every single team member sees how their individual contributions lead to the company's growth. Number two, check in regularly on their career goals and aspirations. Ensure that they are actually growing. We talked about that earlier, but what's amazing about doing that is the byproduct is they are loyal as to you if you actually genuinely care.

Why would they want to leave? Why would they leave somebody who is experienced further in their career, understands a lot of the landmines they're going to have to navigate through their career, and that actually cares about their growth, and wants to see them reach their full potential and their goals. Nobody's going to leave that. And thirdly, we haven't really touched on this. Give people stretch opportunities.

Push them. Make them uncomfortable. Give them opportunities that they would not imagine on their own that they could accomplish. What this does is one, it gives them opportunity to grow. Cool.

Amazing. But it also shows them that you trust them. Trust begets trust. When you show your team that you trust them, they will show you in return trust to you. Like I've said, I try to ask every new hire on any team that I'm running, what do you want to accomplish in your career?

What is your career goal? And this isn't just blowing smoke. It's literally how we tailor projects and opportunities for the individual working on the team. This accelerates their growth, accelerates their loyalty, and it makes them want to contribute more and help other people on the team realize their goals as well. One element of building a strong team culture is building an effective culture.

Typically on creative teams, you have a lot of individuals that are individual contributors. They're makers. And often times in organizations, those makers get because people set up random meetings throughout the day. For a lot of individuals, a meeting is no big deal. You hop on and then you got the next meeting.

Maybe you have a 30-minute gap. Okay, cool. I'll do some like random little assa tasks, send some emails, whatever. If you're a creator, you're a maker, that ruins everything because your whole goal is to get into the flow state. And if you get into the flow state and you're editing and time is nothing, it's non-existent and you're just killing it.

And then all of a sudden, ding, that Google calendar notification says meeting in 10 minutes. Well, boom, done. It's over. Then you hop onto the call. Amazing.

Awesome. Call happens. And then you try and get back in the edit. It's going to take you 30 to 45, maybe even upwards of an hour to get back into that same state that you were in before. And so what I recommend you do for your team culture is implement what Paul Graham created which is the maker manager schedule.

And basically what it is is it identifies that there are two different types of individuals within an org. You have makers and managers. Managers are typically people that are managing teams and they get done by having meetings. Meetings actually are literally integral to their role. If they don't have meetings, they're not getting anything done.

On the flip side, a maker, meetings are their enemy. All the editors and creatives watching this are like nodding their heads. Their heads are going to roll off their neck right now. They're like, "Yeah, meetings suck. Half the time I don't even contribute.

I don't even get information that is necessary other than for 5 minutes of the call." And then the other 25 minutes was completely unnecessary. The issue is there's no problem with either. Neither one is right or wrong. The problem is when either one tries to function within the other one's setup. Okay?

So when a maker gets pulled into a manager schedule or when a manager gets pulled into a maker schedule. Now typically within organizations like I said you have both. It's not like you have a team only of makers or only of managers. Neither would be possible. So what I recommend doing is creating maker manager schedule.

Now, the way that I typically like to operate, and you can mold this to whatever works best for you and your team, but the way that I operate is the first half of the day is your maker time. So, for me, this looks like usually 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. I'm in maker mode. This is when I am working on drafting things like this, or maybe I'm writing a script for a future video, or I'm reviewing a script for a client and giving them notes on how they could improve it.

That is my maker time. And I do my best to not interrupt anybody on my team and pull them into a meeting during maker time. That is reserved. That is holy and sacred time for them to do their thing. Now, you do need some manager time.

Meetings, unfortunately, have to occur. I say unfortunately cuz I think now I'm in a season where I'm a little bit more in a a maker uh mode than manager as much, but they're important and they have to occur. So, typically the way I run my schedule is 12 to 5 is my manager time. This is where I try to schedule all my meetings. Now, do I hold to this perfectly?

No. One of our partners is in the UK and so because of that time difference, there's one day a week where I have a meeting at 8:00 a.m. But if you are intentional and you create this system, you empower the team to be able to follow that. You empower your editors, your designers, your strategists to be able to actually have five, six, seven hours of uninterrupted flow work. It's incredible the level of efficiency that you get.

Also, the team loves it. They they prefer it so much. And typically, what you'll find is they actually end up pushing you towards making one day a week an entire maker day. And what I like to do is I usually have Wednesdays be that day. So Monday would be a meeting day or a manager day and I would stack as many calls as I could on that day to try and have as few the rest of the week cuz once you're in that mode, you might as well just like suffer entirely.

But then on Tuesday, I would operate in the morning as my maker time. And then usually the back half, like 2 to 5 would be manager time. Wednesdays, I'd block entirely for maker time. And then Thursday would follow and Friday would follow the same exact schedule as Tuesday. There's probably an icon that's popped up that breaks this down.

We have a little playbook for you on this that'll walk you through how to build your maker and manager schedule. I can't emphasize the importance of this enough. You will gain so much efficiency and your team will be much happier with their work if you operate this way. So, we've talked a lot about hiring, onboarding, and culture. Right now, one thing that we haven't discussed or touched on yet is the great debate that has basically started to take place in society since 2020.

And that is remote work versus inerson or hybrid. And I think there are a lot of benefits and detractors to all three. And so what I want to do is walk through a couple of different factors that you're going to be thinking about when deciding or determining whether or not you're going to be a remote work uh team, a hybrid team, or an in-person team. And so we're going to walk through these different factors, and I'm going to give you just a couple of points on it. Again, this is a sheet that you can download.

I think this will be very useful for you to use. This is an important thing to get right. And when I say get right, I'm actually going to explain that a little bit more. It's not that there is a right or wrong way. There's not.

All of them work. All of them have downsides to it. The key is to make sure that you are very intentional about how you go about doing this. The way you build culture remotely is far different than in person. You have to be a lot more intentional and thoughtful remotely because as we all know, there's amazing moments in person when you're just walking through the office and you happen to pass by that employee and you just randomly embark on a 20-minute conversation where you learn a lot about them, right?

You're able to pour into them, help answer or solve a problem they are encountering. That doesn't really happen as much by accident remotely. It's not like you're just like walking through the Zoom rooms and happen to stumble upon someone. Like that's not how it works. And so you have to be more intentional with how you set up meetings, check-ins, etc.

So factor number one is flexibility. Okay? And for remote work, the flexibility is unbelievably high, right? Employees can work from anywhere. They're adaptable with their schedules.

It allows the employee to be very flexible. This is viewed, in my opinion, as a benefit.