23 Remote vs In Person vs Hybrid.

By doing this, you actually in some instances can pay lower than typical market rates because this is a huge benefit for some individuals. There's a lot of people out there that are parents that maybe have young ones and they want to be able to be home around their kids. It doesn't mean that they're not working. It just means that if their kid, you know, starts puking or something like that, they can actually take care of it, right? It also cuts down on commute costs for them.

There's a whole lot of benefits that play out for the employee and the company. Now, for inperson, the flexibility is pretty low. Let's be real. These are typically fixed hours and a required location that you are working at. Now, there's a lot of benefits to this, as we'll see.

And now that we live in a world where a lot of people have become accustomed to remote work, this is something that a lot of different teams are finding difficult. Now, hybrid is a little bit of a medium here. Uh, and that's kind of what you're going to find is hybrid for all of these is kind of like a happy medium between both. This is a mix of remote work and office work. This is far more flexible, but provides enough structure that maybe the company might feel a little bit more comfortable with that cadence.

A lot of individuals that run companies have this fear that if people are fully remote, how do I know that they're actually working, right? And so the hybrid model allows you to be able to see them in action maybe two or three times a week, but then maybe they're the type of employee that gets a lot more work done at home. Okay? And so the flexibility here is medium or moderate and I think is probably more realistic for most organizations and individuals than an all or nothing approach. The next factor that we're looking at is collaboration.

Remote work requires strong digital communication tools, potential for time zone challenges as well. So you need to make sure that your tech stack and your standard operating procedure for communication is very clearly articulated to the team. If you expect people to be messaging back and forth constantly all day long in Slack, you need to make sure that they know that. If you require that people hop on Zoom calls, like that needs to be very clear. The amount of collaboration that happens by accident in a remote environment is very minimal.

Every once in a while, you get blessed with that that moment where you're on a Zoom call talking about one thing and then it changes and evolves into a big project or whatever, but for the most part, you don't get those happy accidents. Now, for collaboration in person, this is far easier. Uh, in my opinion, there's a lot of real-time collaboration that occurs. If we're talking about a creative director giving notes to an editor, it's so much different providing notes on frame.io and and giving a couple of notes here and there versus sitting down with the editor and being like, "What if we did this?" And then the editor chimes in on that.

And they feed each other and they ladder up to a way better idea than probably what they would have landed on using just a Frame or some sort of digital service like that. Now, don't get me wrong, we use Frame. I love Frame. I use it with all of our partners. I've used it for years and I think it's a very effective tool and better than 99% of alternatives if you're not in person.

But there is a beauty of having the team working together on the ground in person. Being able to real time go back and forth on potential solves and solutions. Again, what you'll notice with hybrid is this is a balanced approach. depending on how many days you have this individual coming into the office is going to be the amount of time that they get those happy accidents, those random occurrences where collaboration takes place that was not planned. But it does also give them the ability to be a little bit more focused at home and have less distraction.

Collaboration can be a big benefit, but it can also be a detractor of productivity, which brings us to the next factor, which is productivity. Now productivity for uh at home or remote work varies. This is very dependent on the individual. I would say when I look at the teams that I've ran, half of the people fall into the camp of they are highly effective at home. They have a lot of agency.

They know how to own their own and they're mature enough to be able to manage their time effectively and not fall into the trap of putting on Netflix and getting into their PJs or, you know, taking 2 hours out of the middle of their day to cook a crazy lunch or some I know those are a lot of the fears that a lot of CEOs and founders have uh for remote workers. Now, productivity for in-person work, I actually believe it's the exact same answer. So, it varies depending on the individual. Some people thrive in an environment where they are away from their home and they know, "I'm in the office.

This is my working time." However, there are a lot of individuals that have the gift of gab and they love to talk and they get really chatty when they're around their co-workers. And actually, I fall into this category. I personally get a lot more work done when I work from home and do a deep work session versus trying to do the same deep work in an office. even if I have my own cubicle or my own office, you know, the roles that I've had over the years tend to be roles where a lot of people want my input on things.

And so I remember like Vayner Media for example, loved the work environment there. It was super cool. It was an open floor plan and everything, but the downside to it, like the benefit was like I could turn over to Dkirk or to Drock or anybody on the team and be like, "Hey, do you want to come check this out? Let's jam on it." The downside was when I was deep in an edit, anybody could do that to me and they could just tap my shoulder whenever and there's no like do not disturb, you know, mode on when you're in person.

And so I actually find that half of the individuals that I've worked with are not very effective in office. They don't have enough discipline to not engage in random conversations here and there. And one thing I'll say is even if they are ideulating on a piece of content or they're working on it, sometimes that's beneficial, but sometimes that's not what the priority is right now. If they have an edit that's due tomorrow and they're sitting there talking with the team about a video we're going to film in two weeks, that's not the best use of their time.

Okay? And so again, I think this varies and depends on the individual. So that's why again, I like a hybrid approach here because you can actually build a team where you reverse engineer the individual. Maybe some people need three days, four days working from home and only come into the office one or two days a week, while others maybe it's like, no, they need to be in five days a week. And you mutually agree upon that because they're self-aware and know, yeah, I don't I don't do a good job at home.

Like I end up just like around, turning the TV on or cleaning my house or whatever. I do a lot of home activities when I'm at home. So ultimately, I think especially on the productivity side, you need to reverse engineer the individual. Now I understand there are some of you that are in bigger organizations and you're about to build a creative team and they have their way of operating and you don't have the ability to be flexible there then okay cool like borrow my life philosophy which is whatever you are given you will turn to your advantage okay so if you do need to be in person 24/7 okay cool make it your advantage you know organize a morning breakfast once a week where you and the team have pancakes and coffee and you jam on different things you've observed online that maybe could apply to the content you're making or whatever.

Or if you have to be remote and you can't be in person, okay, cool. Maybe what you do is you create a happy hour on Fridays or Thursdays. Not Fridays, cuz nobody wants to do a happy hour on Friday with their co-workers. They want to go out with their homies. But on Thursday, maybe you end the day with like an hour session where you all have cocktails or, you know, you drink sodas, whatever the deal is, kombucha if you're in Bellingham, Washington, uh or Portland, Oregon.

And like maybe you do that and you all jam and maybe sometimes you're talking about work stuff, maybe sometimes you're just talking about life. I think that you can always try to take the benefits from the opposite operation. So if you're in person, you can take the benefits from remote or if you're remote, you can try and take the benefits from in person and replicate them in your own way. Now again, this is another situation where hybrid is the best move in my opinion. That's what I like to run.

The next factor we're going to take into account here is cost, right? I mean, ultimately, we got limited budgets and and some of us have more limited budgets than others. And so, this is a a factor that I think is probably top of mind for a lot of individuals. And when it comes to remote work, this is probably the most cost effective. Okay?

You save on office space. You save on like the employees save on commuting expenses. You don't have to have relocation costs if you're a fully remote operation. And you know, maybe you, the founder, are based in New York City. You can hire somebody in Florida and California, and Kansas, wherever, and they're not going to have to move to New York City, and so you don't have to pay an egregious relocation package.

Okay? So, you save a lot of cost there. Now, for the office in person, this is the highest cost option here. you're going to have to pay for an office, whether you're buying it outright or you're renting. That's going to be a pretty high overhead every month.

You also have utilities. And then typically nowadays, I mean, I think this is a great thing, but tougher for small businesses, you know, with the rise of Facebook, Google, Amazon, Apple, all these cool in-person offices. Everyone's aware that like companies can provide cereal and and fruit and coffee and all these, you know, kombucha, beer on tap, cold brew, all of this And so more and more employees are starting to expect some perks for being in the office, okay? Like at the very least granola bars and, you know, sodas or something like that in the fridge.

And so you incur not only the cost of your rent or your mortgage, you have utilities and you have the cost of some perks that you're going to probably need to provide. Now, in the beginning, is this absolutely necessary? No. Of course, there's going to be people that argue in the comments about like, you know, people have gotten soft. They need doesn't matter.

It's more expensive to be in person for sure. Hybrid's funny on cost. It's actually, I think, the maybe only or one of the only scenarios where hybrid is a very bad option cuz you kind of get right? You're paying for an office. You incur the cost of having this space.

And if it's hybrid, you need to have space available for the remote workers to come in, but they're not in all the time. So, you're paying for space that's not getting used all the time. So, you have free empty space that you're not monetizing. That kind of sucks. This is the detractor in my opinion to the hybrid model, which I have been very clearly in favor of up until this point.

So, if cost is your major factor, it's your number one factor, then hybrid might not be for you right now. That might be something that you can aspire to. But maybe if cost is your number one priority, you're probably going to want to go remote. Now, the next factor that we're looking at is talent pool. What individuals do you have access to?

And when you are fully remote, you have access to the whole world. You literally could hire anybody anywhere at any time. That opens up the door for not only very impressive, highly skilled talent, but also very impressive, highly skilled talent at a reduced cost. Think about it this way. a very very talented editor, a 10 out of 10 in LA versus a 10 out of 10 editor, same exact skill set living in Kansas City.

Very different. I mean, honestly, the difference between a New York City or LA editor that it's a 10 out of 10 and a Las Vegas editor is very different. And so, if you are a remote team, you can hire highly talented. If you're based in LA, you don't have to hire LA editors for the LA Premium. you do have the flexibility to get away with not having to bring those individuals.

You also get access to talent that is literally across the world. Okay? And so, like, if you're starting to make international content and stuff that you're going global with, you have access to a talent pool that's going to understand the nuances of those new cultures that maybe you don't get. This allows your talent pool to go from your local market to the entire world. If you are fully in office, however, you really limit your talent pool.

If you're based in Los Angeles or New York City, your talent pool is going to be fine. You're you're not going to have an issue, especially when it comes to creatives. Like those are the hubs where the most amount of creatives are. But if you find yourself in like Chattanooga, Tennessee or El Paso, Texas, yeah, you might not have quite the same access to talent that those folks in LA and NYC have. This becomes a major constraint.

You are all of a sudden limited to people in your local area or people that are willing to relocate. And that's going to drive your cost up because more than likely if you're going to bring somebody from LA to El Paso, Texas, you're probably going to have to pay them a premium because you're compensating them for a massive lifestyle change and literally them missing out on the lifestyle and opportunities that come from being in LA. The amount of opportunities that pop up for a video editor in Los Angeles are absurd.

You can be at a coffee shop editing a video and have five different people walk up to you and talk to you about your work. And that's networking at scale. And so if you move to El Paso, you know, nothing against El Paso. I love El Paso. I've been there once.

If you live in El Paso, I almost guarantee if you're in a in a coffee shop editing, you're not going to have five different opportunities potentially pop up like you would in a New York City or a Los Angeles. you really limit your talent pool when you are local, especially if you are local in a non- major market. Now, the hybrid model is a little bit better than the local. So, you can kind of use it as like a benefit that you you place in front of the candidate. Yes, you do have to relocate, but you're not going to have to be in office all the time.

You can be remote. And so, maybe there's a scenario where they could be remote and go back to the town they're from and work remotely for 4 days a week. So, they could be in office 3 days a week and then they could go travel for four. This provides a lot more flexibility for the employee which does make the relocation offer a little bit more palatable from my experience. The next factor is culture and engagement.

And I think you guys can probably already imagine where I'm going with this. Remote is very hard to build culture and to drive engagement within your team. There's a huge difference when I say, "Hey, Trevor, what do you think of this idea?" when he's right in front of me versus if I send it on Slack. He might be deep in work. He might be twiddling his thumbs, around, doing nothing.

It might take him an hour to respond, right? And so speed, engagement, and culture are much slower. It's not impossible. You can absolutely build a very powerful culture remotely, but it just takes more time and requires far more intentionality. I I believe that if you are going to go the remote route, be very very intentional with your check-ins.

send a morning check-in on Slack seeing how the team's doing. Is there anything that I can help with? Are there any roadblocks that I can bulldoze through for you? Is there any clarity that I can provide you? How are you feeling?

Are you feeling healthy? Are you sick? Can I send you juice? Like anything like that that can help you expedite building the company and team culture. The other thing that you can do, now this is uh a cost, this is a higher investment, but if you have the budget to, one thing I found very effective is if you do have a remote team, you can create a in-person meetup.

Okay? And this is a one-time event or maybe it's a quarterly event uh that takes place where you fly the team into one spot and you all hang out. What I would recommend if you're going to do that is make it a combination of fun and work. It shouldn't just all be fun and around, but it shouldn't all just be work, too. You want to give the employees the opportunity to do what they can't do, right?

When you are in person, which I'll touch on in a second, one really cool thing that does happen is some employees are like, "Hey, you want to go grab dinner? Like, we're working late. Let's go grab beers. Let's go jam." And they develop a closer, tight-knit relationship, and that has a massive ripple effect throughout your team. The closer they are, the better they're going to communicate.

the more they're going to understand each other, the less room there is for misunderstandings and weird drama and conflict. Now, like I was saying, for the inerson, I think this is the easiest method for building culture. But there are some downsides to it. One, there's a lot of young people that are in the workforce now that entered the workforce after or during co and so they've never been in person and so they have no idea how to hold themselves, how to behave maturely. And so you do sometimes, especially I've noticed on creative teams or younger teams, you run into scenarios where maybe there's a little bit more drama that's going to pop up.

You might have to deal with a little bit more interpersonal training and education on how we conduct ourselves. Just like you get so much benefit from the high frequency, high touch, lots of contact, as we know, if we spend an entire weekend with our significant other, by the end of that weekend, we might be a little bit more likely to get in an argument. The same thing happens with teams. If you spend all day every day with each other, you might start getting a little irritated and maybe make a sly comment and that can snowball.

And so that that's one thing that I would caution you to be aware of is if you are building a team that is utilizing a lot younger talent and more junior individuals that are earlier in their career, you are going to have to spend a little bit more time educating them on how to conduct themselves. Now, hybrid is a beautiful blend of the two, right? You get the in-person dynamic where you're able to scale culture quicker, right? You're able to reinforce good behaviors and correct bad ones a lot faster, but you also get the benefit of maybe not everybody is in the office every single day and so they're not all just chatting around a table every single day as well.

And so you get the best of both worlds. You get expedited culture, strength of culture, but also you get to retain productivity that maybe some teams lose by always being in person together. The beauty of having a team that all love each other and get along really well and love to chat and work on is well, they work really well together and they get a lot done. The downside is is maybe they end up falling out of productivity a little bit because they're chatting too much. Personally, I would actually prefer, as a side note, for that to be my problem than the alternative.

I'd rather that they they want to talk to each other versus them not wanting to talk to each other. So ultimately, I think what we have here is good, better, best. I personally like in person a lot. I I think that there are more benefits to in person than remote for the company, but that's one-sided. I think for a lot of individuals, remote work is better.

I don't like to only do things in my benefit. I want to have a mutual exchange of benefit. And that's where I like hybrid. I think hybrid is the best version if you can afford it. If you have the ability to pay for an office that is not always being used and you won't get pissed when people aren't always in there, then hybrid is the way to go.

You get the best of both worlds. You get to scale culture, correct bad behaviors, reinforce good ones. You get to do fun activities with the team. you get to know them better because you get the, you know, water cooler talk where you get to learn something about somebody that you had no clue that they were interested in. And maybe that's something that you can start to pour into.

Maybe you find out that somebody on your team loves making music. Maybe you have a video coming up that you want an original track to and so they actually go home and work on that as a project. Okay, cool. Probably would have never discovered that over Zoom. But if you are at a stage where you can't afford an office, then I truly believe you can absolutely build a powerful strong team remotely.

I've done it. I've literally had a team of 14 people all remote before. I know that it is possible. It is a challenge and you have to be far more intentional and methodical with how you approach it. So to recap, hybrid in my opinion is the best.

Then the next two, I'm just going to say it. In person is best for the company. remote is best for the employee. And so you have to determine what factors here are most important to you. So the sheet that you have that you've downloaded, what I want you to do is order in priority what are the factors that are most important to you right now.

And that becomes your decision-making framework. That's how you determine whether you're going to go in person, remote, or hybrid. So here are my final thoughts on building your team. Again, I think this is arguably the most important part of this entire course. One, a strong team is not just about skill.

It's about culture, alignment, growth, and trust. Two, define and reinforce your core values daily. Right? If if good branding is an intentional pairing of relevant things done consistently, well, pair yourself and your organization with your core values consistently and then the team will inherently associate the two. Branding works externally and internally just as effectively.

Number three, please be radically transparent. Just like trust begets trust, transparency begets transparency. You want your team to be transparent with you about the problems that are occurring, right? You don't want them secretly dealing with a bunch of different problems that you have no idea about and then one day it blows up in your face. Well, they're not going to be open and vulnerable with you if you're not open and vulnerable with them.

Number four, make growth a priority. Your team is going to see themselves on your team a lot longer if they see a long road ahead of growth. If they think that they're probably going to be capped out on their growth within the next 3 months, guess what they're spending their time doing right now? Posting on LinkedIn and looking at potential other opportunities because they want to move the on. Number five, the most important one to me and how I strive to always lead.

Lead with empathy. Your team will respond with empathy back. So when you up as the leader, they will be empathetic towards you rather than holding it against you. When a mistake occurs, often times it's not intentional. They're not trying to ruin your brand.

They're not trying to up the process or lose the company money. Be empathetic to all that they have going on. A lot of times these people have lives outside of their job. Crazy, crazy concept. and their lives outside of the job affect their job.

I truly believe that if you show up on a daily basis as an empathetic leader, your team is going to stick with you and fight for you and show up for you in a way that you could never imagine. Lead your team with empathy, not fear. If you lead your team with empathy rather than fear, creativity will flourish rather than be stifled. Culture isn't created in the words that you say. It's created in the actions that you choose to do every single day.

If you're intentional about it, you won't just have employees. You'll have a team that's fully locked in and ready to build something much bigger than the individual. All right, y'all. We have gotten to the final section. We've gone over brand.

We've gone over content. And we've gone over building out your team. And we are at the final piece of the puzzle, which is monetize. And we're going to start with trust before transactions. Now, most people make the mistake of trying to monetize too early.

They push offers before trust is built and then they wonder why no one buys. The reality is trust is the currency that preeds the transaction. Now, before we dive in, I want to just say I understand this position to be in. Last night after filming for a full 12-hour day, Trevor and I were sitting at the Airbnb and we were actually debating and going back and forth just looking at what could we charge for this course and how many people do we think we could buy and we were running the numbers and I will tell you it is unbelievably tempting.

So, I want to empathize with you if you are in a position where maybe you did try to monetize too early. Maybe you did try and get transactions before you built trust. I understand it completely. Maybe you're in the position right now where you're building your brand and you haven't made any asks, but you're still early in the process and you're like, "Fuck, I really want to make a little bit of money off of this." I get it. And off top, we got bills to pay and mouths to feed.

So, if that is the case, then you got to do what you got to do. What I'm about to walk through is the best case scenario. But I understand there are realities that we live in, and so you have to do what you got to do and take care of your family.