25 Trust Before Transactions.

Number two is demonstrate credibility and expertise. You need to become the go-to authority in your industry. And thirdly, establish a relationship with your audience. Engagement actually matters. If people feel like they know you, sales become effortless.

You're not having to push, convince, inject all this scarcity and urgency, they trust you. They believe that what you are offering is of actual value because what you've offered for free has been worth more than what they've invested. And so this leads us to defining your monetization model. Now, to be clear, I don't believe that all brands should monetize the same. Your monetization strategy should line up with your strengths, what you're providing, the value that you bring in your content, and more importantly, what your audience actually needs.

So, here are five primary paths that you can take with your monetization model. Number one is services. Think agency life, think consulting, think coaching. This is ideal for hightouch direct impact with your clients. You'll find this works well if you have deep expertise and people are already asking for your advice.

Number two is products. This is digital or physical. Some examples of digital are ebooks, templates, playbooks, courses. One thing to note here is these are also very high margin and so your profitability will be through the roof if you do this correctly. Now, a couple examples for physical are like a physical book or you could sell apparel.

There's many different versions of this, but you're going to find that digital is higher margins. And so, I would encourage you to explore this and probably lean into more digital products earlier on so that you're able to scale. Number three is affiliates and sponsorships. If you've put the effort into building the trust, you're going to be able to monetize through very intentional and strategic partnerships with people that align with your brand. Now, what I would recommend you do is don't shill out tools and programs or software that you don't actually use.