26 Define Your Monetization Model.

Make sure that you're always pushing stuff that you actually actually use and believe in. Your brand is your most valuable asset. And if you end up pushing out a bunch of products that you don't believe in or use and that are actually garbage for your community, that pairing done consistently will create a bad brand effect for you. people will start to associate you with the shitty product. So, make sure whatever you are pushing or promoting is something that you truly believe in and you know will be valuable for your audience.

Number four is community and memberships. This can create recurring revenue for you via exclusive content, masterminds, online groups, or even paid newsletters. The list goes on and on. There's many different options for you in this realm. And the beauty of this is it's a great hub for your super fans and for you to go deeper with those fans and build a tighter connection and build greater loyalty with that audience.

And number five is ads and content monetization. This looks like YouTube ad revenue, podcast sponsorships or even newsletter ads. This is a very popular route to go, but what I would encourage you to do is pair this with one of the other monetization models. Typically, in the beginning, you're not going to be earning that much in sponsorships or ad revenue, but it is a nice thing to be able to potentially cover costs of production for your content. This is especially effective for the hightra long-term brand.

So, like I said in the beginning, you're not going to see much traction on this monetization model. This is kind of like a nice to have or an add-on to an already established, more effective and consistent monetization model. Now, a pro tip here is if you're not sure where to start, I would encourage you to look at your email and your DMs and your comments. More than likely, you can see what your audience is already asking for and then you can serve them what they already have identified they need.

This will make it a lot easier to get conversions to occur. Next is share the knowledge, sell the execution. If you give away value freely, people will still pay for the help. A lot of people, and I I completely understand why, fear sharing way too much of their information for free. They think, "If I share everything I know, why would anybody ever pay me?" But the reality is is the more value you give, the more demand you create.

The more value you give, the more trust you build. The more trust you have, the more likely someone is to convert. So, here's the formula. Share the knowledge, sell the execution. Your best content should be so valuable that people feel compelled to act.

But then when they go to act, they realize that the execution is overwhelming and they might not have the tools, resources or knowledge to implement what you have told them to do. This is where the monetization comes into play. And as an example, I have modified my Harley-Davidsons like an insane amount. One of my bikes, it's a Harley-Davidson Road King special. And I have done so much to it, you wouldn't even recognize it as a Road King.

Now, when I went to upgrade my exhaust pipe, for example, I watched probably a hundred different videos on YouTube on how to change the exhaust pipe. I just wanted to have the knowledge. I wanted to see what kind of pipes that I should choose between, what the best one was for my model. I consumed enough content to know exactly what to do. Now, if you know me, you know I'm not very mechanically inclined, like at all.

And so in watching it, what it actually showed me was this is far too complicated and way too expensive of a vehicle for me to up.