27 Share the Knowledge, Sell the Execution.

So what am I going to do? I'm going to go to the Harley-Davidson dealership that put content out for free showing me how I could go about doing that. And that's what I did. I ended up going and paying Harley to install the pipe. I didn't do it myself.

And so they gave me all the knowledge and then they sold the execution. Another example is maybe you give away a framework that helps people land their first client. The knowledge is free but the execution requires additional guidance templates. That is what you sell. The execution of the knowledge.

So the takeaway here is that the knowledge is free but you charge for the execution. And now we're going to build your offer stack. A oneizefits-all approach definitely will not work. We need something that is custom and tailored to each of us and what we are providing to the marketplace. Now, the best brands have multiple revenue streams.

But guess what? They didn't start that way. Start with one offer, refine it, and then begin to expand. Don't start with five different offers. You're going to confuse your audience.

Make it very simple. Make it something you can track and something that you can refine over time before you go about expanding. So, here's a simple offer progression. One, you put out free content. This builds trust and awareness.

Two, create a lead magnet. Think miniourse, SOP, checklist, playbook. This allows you to capture emails and phone numbers so that you're not just beholden to the algorithms of these platforms serving your content, but you have a direct line of access to your customers. Number three is you have your low ticket offer. This is usually somewhere between $10 and $100.

Think ebooks, mini courses, or templates. And what this does is it removes the barrier of entry. Number four is a mid-t offer. Now, this is anywhere from $500 to $5,000. I know that's a wide range, but it depends on what you're offering.

Think group coaching, memberships to your community, or even really in-depth courses. These are for your highly committed buyers. And lastly, number five is your high ticket offer. Think $10,000 plus. This is your one-on-one consulting, your agency services, or any done for you service that you can provide.

And these are your very high ROI clients. Most successful brands don't start with their high ticket offer first.