28 Build Your Offer Stack.

They establish trust and build awareness before ever offering that to the marketplace. There are some unique scenarios where maybe you have demand before you ever start making public content. But that is very very rare and the majority of you consuming this if you're in the early stages, you are not at that point yet. You need to build more trust with your audience and get more people to be aware of who you are and what you offer before bringing a high ticket offer into the marketplace. Next, we're going to let our content do the selling for us.

Sales should feel natural, not forced. People hate feeling sold to, but they love buying from someone they trust. That's why your brand should bridge the gap between value and monetization. So, how do we do this? Well, here is how you can let your content sell for you.

One, teach a valuable lesson and maybe end it with a soft CTA. Number two is share client success stories. Showcase how your offer helped them improve. Number three, document your process. Show the behind the scenes of what you do and what you offer.

Number four, address common objections. Answer the unspoken concerns that are holding people back. Number five, use lead magnets to capture data. Offer something valuable like a checklist, a playbook, a miniourse, or a full in-depth course in exchange for an email so that you have direct access to your customers. Here's an example.

Instead of saying, "Buy my ebook on personal branding," try, "I helped John go from 0 to 10k followers in 4 and 1/2 months using this exact strategy." If you want the full system, I break it down in my ebook. There's a link in my bio. Do you see the difference there? It's far more compelling if you share the results that you are getting for your clients and for your customers than if you're just encouraging people to go buy the book based on what it is. And finally, I'm sure you've probably gotten this theme throughout.

Play the long game. We want to monetize without losing trust. A lot of people approach monetization backwards. They think about how to make money first, then build content to try and drive sales. But the brands that actually win, they're not chasing short-term revenue.