30 Play the Long Game.

The goal is to focus on long-term retention. How can we keep people engaged over months, not just days? Rather than thinking about a one-hit viral video, think more like Netflix, a series that you continue to come back to day after day, month after month. And number three, and this is the most important one, protect your reputation at all costs. It is way harder to rebuild trust than it is to maintain trust.

Every short-term cash grab that you do comes with a significant long-term cost. You need to be obsessive with who and what you pair your brand with because these are the associations that your audience is going to make when they hear of your brand. A great question that I would encourage you to ask yourself before you make any moves for a monetization play are, will this increase trust with my audience or decrease trust? Will this make my audience trust me more or trust me less? And if the answer is that it's less, I promise you it is not worth it.

Period. To summarize, obviously monetization is extremely important. We have to make money in order to pay our bills, in order to be able to fund projects like this, for example. But the reality is is if you try to make that play too early, you're going to burn your audience and degrade trust. You need to make sure that you establish immense amount of trust before you start monetizing your audience.

This is going to make that monetization season, that play, so much easier for you and will allow you to continue to monetize down the road. The ones who are trying to make a short-term cash grab, what they're doing is feeding themselves today, but what they don't realize is they're making it difficult to feed themselves tomorrow. What you want to do is build a brand that allows you to continue to feed yourself day after day after day. But this only comes when you establish trust first. All right, that is exactly what I would do if I were building a brand from scratch.

I hope you got a lot of value out of this and I hope you plan on taking action. So, in the spirit of taking action, please make sure that you download all the playbooks that we've given you throughout this entire course. It is my only goal that you not only consume this, but that you actually take action. That's what makes this whole time that you've invested worth it. It's pretty wild how much we were able to cover.

So, here's a quick refresher to remind you of every little thing that we went through. First, we started with what brand is and isn't. Then, we went to defining your brand, then positioning your brand. Then, we went to picking your topics, choosing your content medium, choosing the right platforms, determining your posting cadence, utilizing storytelling in your content, having your community drive your content. Then we went to scaling your content, creating space for experimentation with content hackathons, why your team is everything, defining your needs before hiring, streamlining your hiring process, hiring for culture, training for skills, starting lean, growing intentionally, full-time employees versus contractors and agencies, onboarding your team properly, developing and retaining your high performing team.

Building a strong team culture, building trust before you transact. defining your monetization model, sharing the knowledge, selling the execution, building your offer stack, letting your content do the selling, tracking and scaling, and last but not least, playing the long game. Now, like I said, it's your turn to execute. But for some of you, you may look at this entire course and be like, "Holy this is way too much for me and my team to be able to execute alone." And that's where my team, Rston, is here to help.